<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="preface" role="doc-preface" epub:type="preface">
			<h2 epub:type="title"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="koboSpan">Preface</span></h2>
			<p><span id="kobo.2.1" class="koboSpan">This book will perhaps only be understood by those who have themselves already thought the thoughts which are expressed in it﻿—or similar thoughts. </span><span id="kobo.2.2" class="koboSpan">It is therefore not a textbook. </span><span id="kobo.2.3" class="koboSpan">Its object would be attained if there were one person who read it with understanding and to whom it afforded pleasure.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.3.1" class="koboSpan">The book deals with the problems of philosophy and shows, as I believe, that the method of formulating these problems rests on the misunderstanding of the logic of our language. </span><span id="kobo.3.2" class="koboSpan">Its whole meaning could be summed up somewhat as follows: </span><span id="kobo.3.3" class="koboSpan">What can be said at all can be said clearly; and whereof one cannot speak thereof one must be silent.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.4.1" class="koboSpan">The book will, therefore, draw a limit to thinking, or rather﻿—not to thinking, but to the expression of thoughts; for, in order to draw a limit to thinking we should have to be able to think both sides of this limit (we should therefore have to be able to think what cannot be thought).</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.5.1" class="koboSpan">The limit can, therefore, only be drawn in language and what lies on the other side of the limit will be simply nonsense.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.6.1" class="koboSpan">How far my efforts agree with those of other philosophers I will not decide. </span><span id="kobo.6.2" class="koboSpan">Indeed what I have here written makes no claim to novelty in points of detail; and therefore I give no sources, because it is indifferent to me whether what I have thought has already been thought before me by another.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.7.1" class="koboSpan">I will only mention that to the great works of Frege and the writings of my friend Bertrand Russell I owe in large measure the stimulation of my thoughts.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.8.1" class="koboSpan">If this work has a value it consists in two things. </span><span id="kobo.8.2" class="koboSpan">First that in it thoughts are expressed, and this value will be the greater the better the thoughts are expressed. </span><span id="kobo.8.3" class="koboSpan">The more the nail has been hit on the head.</span><span id="kobo.8.4" class="koboSpan">﻿—Here I am conscious that I have fallen far short of the possible. </span><span id="kobo.8.5" class="koboSpan">Simply because my powers are insufficient to cope with the task.</span><span id="kobo.8.6" class="koboSpan">﻿—May others come and do it better.</span></p>
			<p><span id="kobo.9.1" class="koboSpan">On the other hand the truth of the thoughts communicated here seems to me unassailable and definitive. </span><span id="kobo.9.2" class="koboSpan">I am, therefore, of the opinion that the problems have in essentials been finally solved. </span><span id="kobo.9.3" class="koboSpan">And if I am not mistaken in this, then the value of this work secondly consists in the fact that it shows how little has been done when these problems have been solved.</span></p>
			<footer>
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature first-child" epub:type="z3998:signature">
					<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name"><span id="kobo.10.1" class="koboSpan">L. </span><span id="kobo.10.2" class="koboSpan">W.</span></abbr>
				</p>
				<p><span id="kobo.12.1" class="koboSpan">Vienna, 1918</span></p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body></html>
