<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XIII: The Seven Scoundrels</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-13" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XIII</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Seven Scoundrels</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">“Will you see this gentleman, ma’am?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">Dolores Kesselbach took the card from the footman and read:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">“André Beauny.</span><span id="kobo.6.2">﻿ ﻿… No,” she said, “I don’t know him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">“The gentleman seems very anxious to see you, ma’am. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">He says that you are expecting him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">“Oh﻿ ﻿… possibly.</span><span id="kobo.8.2">﻿ ﻿… Yes, bring him here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">Since the events which had upset her life and pursued her with relentless animosity, Dolores, after staying at the Hôtel Bristol had taken up her abode in a quiet house in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.9.2">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.10.1">, down at Passy. </span><span id="kobo.10.2">A pretty garden lay at the back of the house and was surrounded by other leafy gardens. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">On days when attacks more painful than usual did not keep her from morning till night behind the closed shutters of her bedroom, she made her servants carry her under the trees, where she lay stretched at full length, a victim to melancholy, incapable of fighting against her hard fate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">Footsteps sounded on the gravel-path and the footman returned, followed by a young man, smart in appearance and very simply dressed, in the rather out-of-date fashion adopted by some of our painters, with a turndown collar and a flowing necktie of white spots on a blue ground.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">The footman withdrew.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">“Your name is André Beauny, I believe?” </span><span id="kobo.14.2">said Dolores.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“Yes, madame.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“I have not the honor﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“I beg your pardon, madame. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">Knowing that I was a friend of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.17.3">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.18.1"> Ernemont, Geneviève’s grandmother, you wrote to her, at Garches, saying that you wished to speak to me. </span><span id="kobo.18.2">I have come.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">Dolores rose in her seat, very excitedly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“Oh, you are﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">She stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“Really?</span><span id="kobo.24.2">﻿ ﻿… Is it you?</span><span id="kobo.24.3">﻿ ﻿… I do not recognize you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“You don’t recognize Prince Paul Sernine?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“No﻿ ﻿… everything is different﻿ ﻿… the forehead﻿ ﻿… the eyes.</span><span id="kobo.26.2">﻿ ﻿… And that is not how the﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“How the newspapers represented the prisoner at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.27.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.28.1">?” </span><span id="kobo.28.2">he said, with a smile. </span><span id="kobo.28.3">“And yet it is I, really.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">A long silence followed, during which they remained embarrassed and ill at ease.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">At last, he asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">“May I know the reason﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">“Did not Geneviève tell you?</span><span id="kobo.33.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“I have not seen her﻿ ﻿… but her grandmother seemed to think that you required my services﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">“That’s right﻿ ﻿… that’s right.</span><span id="kobo.35.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">“And in what way﻿ ﻿… ? </span><span id="kobo.36.2">I am so pleased﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">She hesitated a second and then whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">“I am afraid.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“Afraid?” </span><span id="kobo.39.2">he cried.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Yes,” she said, speaking in a low voice, “I am afraid, afraid of everything, afraid of today and of tomorrow﻿ ﻿… and of the day after﻿ ﻿… afraid of life. </span><span id="kobo.40.2">I have suffered so much.</span><span id="kobo.40.3">﻿ ﻿… I can bear no more.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">He looked at her with great pity in his eyes. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">The vague feeling that had always drawn him to this woman took a more precise character now that she was asking for his protection. </span><span id="kobo.41.3">He felt an eager need to devote himself to her, wholly, without hope of reward.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">She continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“I am alone now, quite alone, with servants whom I have picked up on chance, and I am afraid.</span><span id="kobo.43.2">﻿ ﻿… I feel that people are moving about me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“But with what object?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“I do not know. </span><span id="kobo.45.2">But the enemy is hovering around and coming closer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“Have you seen him? </span><span id="kobo.46.2">Have you noticed anything?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“Yes, the other day two men passed several times in the street and stopped in front of the house.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“Can you describe them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“I saw one of them better than the other. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">He was tall and powerful, clean-shaven and wore a little black cloth jacket, cut quite short.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“A waiter at a café, perhaps?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Yes, a headwaiter. </span><span id="kobo.51.2">I had him followed by one of my servants. </span><span id="kobo.51.3">He went down the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.51.4">Rue de la Pompe</span><span id="kobo.52.1"> and entered a common-looking house. </span><span id="kobo.52.2">The ground-floor is occupied by a wine-shop: </span><span id="kobo.52.3">it is the first house in the street, on the left. </span><span id="kobo.52.4">Then, a night or two ago, I saw a shadow in the garden from my bedroom window.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“Is that all?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">He thought and then made a suggestion:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“Would you allow two of my men to sleep downstairs, in one of the ground-floor rooms?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“Two of your men?</span><span id="kobo.58.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Oh, you need not be afraid! </span><span id="kobo.59.2">They are decent men, old Charolais and his son,</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.59.3">9</span></a><span id="kobo.60.1"> and they don’t look in the least like what they are.</span><span id="kobo.60.2">﻿ ﻿… You will be quite safe with them.</span><span id="kobo.60.3">﻿ ﻿… As for me﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">He hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.62.2">He was waiting for her to ask him to come again. </span><span id="kobo.62.3">As she was silent, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“As for me, it is better that I should not be seen here.</span><span id="kobo.63.2">﻿ ﻿… Yes, it is better﻿ ﻿… for your sake. </span><span id="kobo.63.3">My men will let me know how things go on.</span><span id="kobo.63.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">He would have liked to say more and to remain and to sit down beside her and comfort her. </span><span id="kobo.64.2">But he had a feeling that they had said all that they had to say and that a single word more, on his side, would be an insult.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">Then he made her a very low bow and went away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">He went up the garden, walking quickly, in his haste to be outside and master his emotion. </span><span id="kobo.66.2">The footman was waiting for him at the hall-door. </span><span id="kobo.66.3">As he passed out into the street, somebody rang, a young woman.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">He gave a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“Geneviève!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">She fixed a pair of astonished eyes upon him and at once recognized him, although bewildered by the extreme youthfulness of his appearance; and this gave her such a shock that she staggered and had to lean against the door for support. </span><span id="kobo.69.2">He had taken off his hat and was looking at her without daring to put out his hand. </span><span id="kobo.69.3">Would she put out hers? </span><span id="kobo.69.4">He was no longer Prince Sernine: </span><span id="kobo.69.5">he was Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.69.6">And she knew that he was Arsène Lupin and that he had just come out of prison.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">It was raining outside. </span><span id="kobo.70.2">She gave her umbrella to the footman and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“Please open it and put it somewhere to dry.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">Then she walked straight in.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“My poor old chap!” </span><span id="kobo.73.2">said Lupin to himself, as he walked away. </span><span id="kobo.73.3">“What a series of blows for a sensitive and highly-strung creature like yourself! </span><span id="kobo.73.4">You must keep a watch on your heart or﻿ ﻿… Ah, what next? </span><span id="kobo.73.5">Here are my eyes beginning to water now! </span><span id="kobo.73.6">That’s a bad sign. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.73.7">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.74.1"> Lupin: </span><span id="kobo.74.2">you’re growing old!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">He gave a tap on the shoulder to a young man who was crossing the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.76.2">Chaussee de la Muette</span><span id="kobo.77.1"> and going toward the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.78.1">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.79.1">. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">The young man stopped, stared at him and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“I beg your pardon, monsieur, but I don’t think I have the honor﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“Think again, my dear </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.82.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.83.1"> Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.83.2">Or has your memory quite gone? </span><span id="kobo.83.3">Don’t you remember Versailles? </span><span id="kobo.83.4">And the little room at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.84.1">Hôtel des Trois-Empereurs</span><span id="kobo.85.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">The young man bounded backwards:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“You!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“Why, yes, I! </span><span id="kobo.89.2">Prince Sernine, or rather Lupin, since you know my real name! </span><span id="kobo.89.3">Did you think that Lupin had departed this life?</span><span id="kobo.89.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, yes, I see, prison.</span><span id="kobo.89.5">﻿ ﻿… You were hoping﻿ ﻿… Get out, you baby!” </span><span id="kobo.89.6">He patted him gently on the shoulder. </span><span id="kobo.89.7">“There, there, young fellow, don’t be frightened: </span><span id="kobo.89.8">you have still a few nice quiet days left to write your poems in. </span><span id="kobo.89.9">The time has not yet come. </span><span id="kobo.89.10">Write your verses﻿ ﻿… poet!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">Then he gripped Leduc’s arm violently and, looking him full in the face, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“But the time is drawing near﻿ ﻿… poet! </span><span id="kobo.91.2">Don’t forget that you belong to me, body and soul. </span><span id="kobo.91.3">And prepare to play your part. </span><span id="kobo.91.4">It will be a hard and magnificent part. </span><span id="kobo.91.5">And, as I live, I believe you’re the man to play it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">He burst out laughing, turned on one foot and left young Leduc astounded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">A little further, at the corner of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.93.2">Rue de la Pompe</span><span id="kobo.94.1">, stood the wine-shop of which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.95.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.96.1"> Kesselbach had spoken to him. </span><span id="kobo.96.2">He went in and had a long talk with the proprietor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">Then he took a taxi and drove to the Grand Hotel, where he was staying under the name of André Beauny, and found the brothers Doudeville waiting for him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">Lupin, though used to that sort of pleasure, nevertheless enjoyed the marks of admiration and devotion with which his friends overwhelmed him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“But, governor, tell us﻿ ﻿… what happened? </span><span id="kobo.100.2">We’re accustomed to all sorts of wonders with you; but still, there are limits.</span><span id="kobo.100.3">﻿ ﻿… So you are free? </span><span id="kobo.100.4">And here you are, in the heart of Paris, scarcely disguised.</span><span id="kobo.100.5">﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Have a cigar,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“Thank you, no.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“You’re wrong, Doudeville. </span><span id="kobo.103.2">These are worth smoking. </span><span id="kobo.103.3">I have them from a great connoisseur, who is good enough to call himself my friend.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">“Oh, may one ask﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“The Kaiser! </span><span id="kobo.105.2">Come, don’t look so flabbergasted, the two of you! </span><span id="kobo.105.3">And tell me things: </span><span id="kobo.105.4">I haven’t seen the papers. </span><span id="kobo.105.5">What effect did my escape have on the public?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“Tremendous, governor!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“What was the police version?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“Your flight took place at Garches, during an attempt to reenact the murder of Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">Unfortunately, the journalists have proved that it was impossible.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“After that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">“After that, a general fluster. </span><span id="kobo.110.2">People wondering, laughing and enjoying themselves like mad.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“Weber?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Weber is badly let in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“Apart from that, no news at the detective-office? </span><span id="kobo.113.2">Nothing discovered about the murderer? </span><span id="kobo.113.3">No clue to help us to establish Altenheim’s identity?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“What fools they are! </span><span id="kobo.115.2">And to think that we pay millions a year to keep those people. </span><span id="kobo.115.3">If this sort of thing goes on, I shall refuse to pay my rates. </span><span id="kobo.115.4">Take a seat and a pen. </span><span id="kobo.115.5">I will dictate a letter which you must hand in to the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.115.6">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.116.1"> this evening. </span><span id="kobo.116.2">The world has been waiting for news of me long enough. </span><span id="kobo.116.3">It must be gasping with impatience. </span><span id="kobo.116.4">Write.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">He dictated:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header class="calibre18">
					<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.119.1">“To the Editor of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.119.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.120.1">:</span></p>
				</header>
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:recipient"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Sir,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“I must apologize to your readers for disappointing their legitimate impatience.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“I have escaped from prison and I cannot possibly reveal how I escaped. </span><span id="kobo.125.2">In the same way, since my escape, I have discovered the famous secret and I cannot possibly disclose what the secret is nor how I discovered it.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“All this will, some day or other, form the subject of a rather original story which my biographer-in-ordinary will publish from my notes. </span><span id="kobo.126.2">It will form a page of the history of France which our grandchildren will read with interest.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“For the moment, I have more important matters to attend to. </span><span id="kobo.127.2">Disgusted at seeing into what hands the functions which I once exercised have fallen, tired of finding the Kesselbach-Altenheim case still dragging along, I am discharging </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.127.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.128.1"> Weber and resuming the post of honor which I occupied with such distinction and to the general satisfaction under the name of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.129.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.130.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<div epub:type="z3998:valediction" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.132.1">“I am, Sir,</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">“Your obedient servant.</span></p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="z3998:sender" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature"><span id="kobo.135.1">“Arsène Lupin,</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“Chief of the Detective-service.”</span></p>
					</div>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">At eight o’clock in the evening, Arsène Lupin and Jean Doudeville walked into Caillard’s, the fashionable restaurant, Lupin in evening-clothes, but dressed like an artist, with rather wide trousers and a rather loose tie, and Doudeville in a frock-coat, with the serious air and appearance of a magistrate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">They sat down in that part of the restaurant which is set back and divided from the big room by two columns.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">A headwaiter, perfectly dressed and supercilious in manner, came to take their orders, notebook in hand. </span><span id="kobo.142.2">Lupin selected the dinner with the nice thought of an accomplished epicure:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“Certainly,” he said, “the prison ordinary was quite acceptable; but, all the same, it is nice to have a carefully-ordered meal.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">He ate with a good appetite and silently, contenting himself with uttering, from time to time, a short sentence that marked his train of thought:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“Of course, I shall manage﻿ ﻿… but it will be a hard job.</span><span id="kobo.145.2">﻿ ﻿… Such an adversary!</span><span id="kobo.145.3">﻿ ﻿… What staggers me is that, after six months’ fighting, I don’t even know what he wants!</span><span id="kobo.145.4">﻿ ﻿… His chief accomplice is dead, we are near the end of the battle and yet, even now, I can’t understand his game.</span><span id="kobo.145.5">﻿ ﻿… What is the wretch after?</span><span id="kobo.145.6">﻿ ﻿… My own plan is quite clear: </span><span id="kobo.145.7">to lay hands on the grand-duchy, to shove a grand-duke of my own making on the throne, to give him Geneviève for a wife﻿ ﻿… and to reign. </span><span id="kobo.145.8">That is what I call lucid, honest and fair. </span><span id="kobo.145.9">But he, the low fellow, the ghost in the dark: </span><span id="kobo.145.10">what is he aiming at?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">He called:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“Waiter!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">The headwaiter came up:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Yes, sir?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Cigars.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">The headwaiter stalked away, returned and opened a number of boxes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">“Which do you recommend?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“These Upmanns are very good, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">Lupin gave Doudeville an Upmann, took one for himself and cut it. </span><span id="kobo.154.2">The headwaiter struck a match and held if for him. </span><span id="kobo.154.3">With a sudden movement, Lupin caught him by the wrist:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Not a word.</span><span id="kobo.155.2">﻿ ﻿… I know you.</span><span id="kobo.155.3">﻿ ﻿… Your real name is Dominique Lecas!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">The man, who was big and strong, tried to struggle away. </span><span id="kobo.156.2">He stifled a cry of pain: </span><span id="kobo.156.3">Lupin had twisted his wrist.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“Your name is Dominique﻿ ﻿… you live in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.157.2">Rue de la Pompe</span><span id="kobo.158.1">, on the fourth floor, where you retired with a small fortune acquired in the service﻿—listen to me, you fool, will you, or I’ll break every bone in your body!</span><span id="kobo.158.2">﻿—acquired in the service of Baron Altenheim, at whose house you were butler.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">The other stood motionless, his face pallid with fear. </span><span id="kobo.160.2">Around them, the small room was empty. </span><span id="kobo.160.3">In the restaurant beside it, three gentlemen sat smoking and two couples were chatting over their liquors.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“You see, we are quiet﻿ ﻿… we can talk.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“Who are you? </span><span id="kobo.162.2">Who are you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“Don’t you recollect me? </span><span id="kobo.163.2">Why, think of that famous luncheon in the Villa Dupont!</span><span id="kobo.163.3">﻿ ﻿… You yourself, you old flunkey, handed me the plate of cakes﻿ ﻿… and such cakes!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“Prince.</span><span id="kobo.164.2">﻿ ﻿… Prince.</span><span id="kobo.164.3">﻿ ﻿…” stammered the other.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Yes, yes, Prince Arsène, Prince Lupin in person.</span><span id="kobo.165.2">﻿ ﻿… Aha, you breathe again!</span><span id="kobo.165.3">﻿ ﻿… You’re saying to yourself that you have nothing to fear from Lupin, isn’t that it? </span><span id="kobo.165.4">Well, you’re wrong, old chap, you have everything to fear.” </span><span id="kobo.165.5">He took a card from his pocket and showed it to him. </span><span id="kobo.165.6">“There, look, I belong to the police now. </span><span id="kobo.165.7">Can’t be helped: </span><span id="kobo.165.8">that’s what we all come to in the end, all of us robber-kings and emperors of crime.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“Well?” </span><span id="kobo.166.2">said the headwaiter, still greatly alarmed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“Well, go to that customer over there, who’s calling you, get him what he wants and come back to me. </span><span id="kobo.167.2">And no nonsense, mind you: </span><span id="kobo.167.3">don’t go trying to get away. </span><span id="kobo.167.4">I have ten men outside, with orders to keep their eyes on you. </span><span id="kobo.167.5">Be off.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">The headwaiter obeyed. </span><span id="kobo.168.2">Five minutes after, he returned and, standing in front of the table, with his back to the restaurant, as though discussing the quality of the cigars with his customers, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“Well? </span><span id="kobo.169.2">What is it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">Lupin laid a number of hundred-franc notes in a row on the table:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“One note for each definite answer to my questions.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Done!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“Now then. </span><span id="kobo.173.2">How many of you were there with Baron Altenheim?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Seven, without counting myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“No more?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">Once only, we picked up some workmen in Italy to make the underground passage from the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.176.3">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.177.1">, at Garches.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">“Were there two underground passages?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“Yes, one led to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.180.2">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.181.1"> and the other branched off from the first and ran under </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.182.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.183.1"> Kesselbach’s house.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“What was the object?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“To carry off </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.186.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.187.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“Were the two maids, Suzanne and Gertrude, accomplices?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Where are they?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Abroad.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“And your seven pals, those of the Altenheim gang?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“I have left them. </span><span id="kobo.194.2">They are still going on.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“Where can I find them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">Dominique hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.196.2">Lupin unfolded two notes of a thousand francs each and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Your scruples do you honor, Dominique. </span><span id="kobo.197.2">There’s nothing for it but to swallow them like a man and answer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">Dominique replied:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“You will find them at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.199.2">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.200.1"> 3, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.201.1">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.202.1">, Neuilly. </span><span id="kobo.202.2">One of them is called the Broker.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Capital. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">And now the name, the real name of Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.204.3">Do you know it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“Yes, Ribeira.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“Dominique, Dominique, you’re asking for trouble. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">Ribeira was only an assumed name. </span><span id="kobo.206.3">I asked you the real name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">“Parbury.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">“That’s another assumed name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">The headwaiter hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.209.2">Lupin unfolded three hundred franc notes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Pshaw, what do I care!” </span><span id="kobo.210.2">said the man. </span><span id="kobo.210.3">“After all, he’s dead, isn’t he? </span><span id="kobo.210.4">Quite dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“His name,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“His name? </span><span id="kobo.212.2">The Chevalier de Malreich.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">Lupin gave a jump in his chair:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“What? </span><span id="kobo.214.2">What do you say? </span><span id="kobo.214.3">The Chevalier﻿—say it again﻿—the Chevalier﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“Raoul de Malreich.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">A long pause. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">Lupin, with his eyes fixed before him, thought of the mad girl at Veldenz, who had died by poison: </span><span id="kobo.216.3">Isilda bore the same name, Malreich. </span><span id="kobo.216.4">And it was the name borne by the small French noble who came to the court of Veldenz in the eighteenth century.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">He resumed his questions:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“What country did this Malreich belong to?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">“He was of French origin, but born in Germany﻿ ﻿… I saw some papers once﻿ ﻿… that was how I came to know his name.</span><span id="kobo.219.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, if he had found it out, he would have wrung my neck, I believe!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">Lupin reflected and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“Did he command the lot of you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“But he had an accomplice, a partner?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“Oh hush﻿ ﻿… hush﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">The headwaiter’s face suddenly expressed the most intense alarm. </span><span id="kobo.225.2">Lupin noticed the same sort of terror and repulsion which he himself felt when he thought of the murderer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“Who is he? </span><span id="kobo.226.2">Have you seen him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">“Oh, don’t let us talk of that one﻿ ﻿… it doesn’t do to talk of him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“Who is he, I’m asking you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“He is the master﻿ ﻿… the chief.</span><span id="kobo.229.2">﻿ ﻿… Nobody knows him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“But you’ve seen him, you. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">Answer me. </span><span id="kobo.230.3">Have you seen him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Sometimes, in the dark﻿ ﻿… at night. </span><span id="kobo.231.2">Never by daylight. </span><span id="kobo.231.3">His orders come on little scraps of paper﻿ ﻿… or by telephone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">“His name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“I don’t know it. </span><span id="kobo.233.2">We never used to speak of him. </span><span id="kobo.233.3">It was unlucky.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“He dresses in black, doesn’t he?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“Yes, in black. </span><span id="kobo.235.2">He is short and slender﻿ ﻿… with fair hair.</span><span id="kobo.235.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“And he kills, doesn’t he?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“Yes, he kills﻿ ﻿… he kills where another might steal a bit of bread.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">His voice shook. </span><span id="kobo.238.2">He entreated:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“Let us stop this﻿ ﻿… it won’t do to talk of him.</span><span id="kobo.239.2">﻿ ﻿… I tell you﻿ ﻿… it’s unlucky.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">Lupin was silent, impressed, in spite of himself, by the man’s anguish. </span><span id="kobo.240.2">He sat long thinking and then rose and said to the headwaiter:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Here, here’s your money; but, if you want to live in peace, you will do well not to breathe a word of our conversation to anybody.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">He left the restaurant with Doudeville and walked to the Porte Saint-Denis without speaking, absorbed in all that he had heard. </span><span id="kobo.242.2">At last, he seized his companion’s arm and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“Listen to me, Doudeville, carefully. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">Go to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.243.3">Gare du Nord</span><span id="kobo.244.1">. </span><span id="kobo.244.2">You will get there in time to catch the Luxemburg express. </span><span id="kobo.244.3">Go to Veldenz, the capital of the grand-duchy of Zweibrucken-Veldenz. </span><span id="kobo.244.4">At the town-hall, you will easily obtain the birth-certificate of the Chevalier de Malreich and further information about the family. </span><span id="kobo.244.5">You will be back on the day after tomorrow: </span><span id="kobo.244.6">that will be Saturday.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Am I to let them know at the detective-office?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“I’ll see to that. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">I shall telephone that you are ill. </span><span id="kobo.247.3">Oh, one word more: </span><span id="kobo.247.4">on Saturday, meet me at twelve o’clock in a little café on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.247.5">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.248.1">, called the Restaurant Buffalo. </span><span id="kobo.248.2">Come dressed as a workman.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.251.1">The next day, Lupin, wearing a short smock and a cap, went down to Neuilly and began his investigations at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.251.2">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.252.1"> 3, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.253.1">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.254.1">. </span><span id="kobo.254.2">A gateway opened into an outer yard; and here he found a huge block of workmen’s dwellings, a whole series of passages and workshops, with a swarming population of artisans, women and brats. </span><span id="kobo.254.3">In a few minutes, he had won the goodwill of the portress, with whom he chatted for an hour on the most varied topics. </span><span id="kobo.254.4">During this hour, he saw three men pass, one after the other, whose manner struck him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“That’s game,” he thought, “and gamy game at that!</span><span id="kobo.256.2">﻿ ﻿… They follow one another by scent!</span><span id="kobo.256.3">﻿ ﻿… Look quite respectable, of course, but with the eye of the hunted deer which knows that the enemy is all around and that every tuft, every blade of grass may conceal an ambush.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">That afternoon and on the Saturday morning, he pursued his inquiries and made certain that Altenheim’s seven accomplices all lived on the premises. </span><span id="kobo.257.2">Four of them openly followed the trade of secondhand clothes-dealers. </span><span id="kobo.257.3">Two of the others sold newspapers; and the third described himself as a broker and was nicknamed accordingly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">They went in and out, one after the other, without appearing to know one another. </span><span id="kobo.258.2">But, in the evening, Lupin discovered that they met in a sort of coach-house situated right at the back of the last of the yards, a place in which the Broker kept his wares piled up: </span><span id="kobo.258.3">old iron, broken kitchen-ranges, rusty stovepipes﻿ ﻿… and also, no doubt, the best part of the stolen goods.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“Come,” he said, “the work is shaping nicely. </span><span id="kobo.259.2">I asked my cousin of Germany for a month and I believe a fortnight will be enough for my purpose. </span><span id="kobo.259.3">And what I like about it is that I shall start operations with the scoundrels who made me take a header in the Seine. </span><span id="kobo.259.4">My poor old Gourel, I shall revenge you at last. </span><span id="kobo.259.5">And high time too!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">At twelve o’clock on Saturday, he went to the Restaurant Buffalo, a little low-ceilinged room to which bricklayers and cabdrivers resorted for their midday meal. </span><span id="kobo.260.2">Someone came and sat down beside him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“It’s done, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“Ah, is it you, Doudeville? </span><span id="kobo.262.2">That’s right! </span><span id="kobo.262.3">I’m dying to know. </span><span id="kobo.262.4">Have you the particulars? </span><span id="kobo.262.5">The birth-certificate? </span><span id="kobo.262.6">Quick, tell me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Well, it’s like this: </span><span id="kobo.263.2">Altenheim’s father and mother died abroad.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“Never mind about them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“They left three children.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“Three?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.267.2">The eldest would have been thirty years old by now. </span><span id="kobo.267.3">His name was Raoul de Malreich.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“That’s our man, Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.268.2">Next?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">“The youngest of the children was a girl, Isilda. </span><span id="kobo.269.2">The register has an entry, in fresh ink, ‘Deceased.’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“Isilda.</span><span id="kobo.270.2">﻿ ﻿… Isilda,” repeated Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.270.3">“That’s just what I thought: </span><span id="kobo.270.4">Isilda was Altenheim’s sister.</span><span id="kobo.270.5">﻿ ﻿… I saw a look in her face which I seemed to recognize.</span><span id="kobo.270.6">﻿ ﻿… So that was the link between them.</span><span id="kobo.270.7">﻿ ﻿… But the other, the third child, or rather the second?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“A son. </span><span id="kobo.271.2">He would be twenty-six by now.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“His name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“Louis de Malreich.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">Lupin gave a little start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“That’s it! </span><span id="kobo.275.2">Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.275.3">﻿ ﻿… The initials </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.275.4">L. </span><span id="kobo.275.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.276.1">﻿ ﻿… The awful and terrifying signature!</span><span id="kobo.276.2">﻿ ﻿… The murderer’s name is Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.276.3">﻿ ﻿… He was the brother of Altenheim and the brother of Isilda and he killed both of them for fear of what they might reveal.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">Lupin sat long, silent and gloomy, under the obsession, no doubt, of the mysterious being.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">Doudeville objected:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“What had he to fear from his sister Isilda? </span><span id="kobo.280.2">She was mad, they told me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“Mad, yes, but capable of remembering certain details of her childhood. </span><span id="kobo.281.2">She must have recognized the brother with whom she grew up﻿ ﻿… and that recollection cost her her life.” </span><span id="kobo.281.3">And he added, “Mad! </span><span id="kobo.281.4">But all those people were mad.</span><span id="kobo.281.5">﻿ ﻿… The mother was mad.</span><span id="kobo.281.6">﻿ ﻿… The father a dipsomaniac.</span><span id="kobo.281.7">﻿ ﻿… Altenheim a regular brute beast.</span><span id="kobo.281.8">﻿ ﻿… Isilda, a poor innocent.</span><span id="kobo.281.9">﻿ ﻿… As for the other, the murderer, he is the monster, the crazy lunatic.</span><span id="kobo.281.10">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“Crazy? </span><span id="kobo.282.2">Do you think so, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“Yes, crazy! </span><span id="kobo.283.2">With flashes of genius, of devilish cunning and intuition, but a crackbrained fool, a madman, like all that Malreich family. </span><span id="kobo.283.3">Only madmen kill and especially madmen of his stamp. </span><span id="kobo.283.4">For, after all﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">He interrupted himself; and his face underwent so great a change that Doudeville was struck by it:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“What’s the matter, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“Look.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">A man had entered and hung his hat﻿—a soft, black felt hat﻿—on a peg. </span><span id="kobo.287.2">He sat down at a little table, examined the bill of fare which a waiter brought him, gave his order and waited motionless, with his body stiff and erect and his two arms crossed over the tablecloth.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">And Lupin saw him full-face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">He had a lean, hard visage, absolutely smooth and pierced with two sockets in the depths of which appeared a pair of steel-gray eyes. </span><span id="kobo.289.2">The skin seemed stretched from bone to bone, like a sheet of parchment, so stiff and so thick that not a hair could have penetrated through it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">And the face was dismal and dull. </span><span id="kobo.290.2">No expression enlivened it. </span><span id="kobo.290.3">No thought seemed to abide under that ivory forehead; and the eyelids, entirely devoid of lashes, never flickered, which gave the eyes the fixed look of the eyes in a statue.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">Lupin beckoned to one of the waiters:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“Who is that gentleman?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">“The one eating his lunch over there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“He is a customer. </span><span id="kobo.295.2">He comes here two or three times a week.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“Can you tell me his name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Why, yes﻿ ﻿… Leon Massier.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.298.2">blurted Lupin, very excitedly. </span><span id="kobo.298.3">“L. </span><span id="kobo.298.4">M﻿ ﻿… the same two letters﻿ ﻿… could it be Louis de Malreich?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">He watched him eagerly. </span><span id="kobo.299.2">Indeed, the man’s appearance agreed with Lupin’s conjectures, with what he knew of him and of his hideous mode of existence. </span><span id="kobo.299.3">But what puzzled him was that look of death about him: </span><span id="kobo.299.4">where he anticipated life and fire, where he would have expected to find the torment, the disorder, the violent facial distortion of the great accursed, he beheld sheer impassiveness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">He asked the waiter:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“What does he do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">“I really can’t say. </span><span id="kobo.302.2">He’s a rum cove﻿ ﻿… He’s always quite alone.</span><span id="kobo.302.3">﻿ ﻿… He never talks to anybody﻿ ﻿… We here don’t even know the sound of his voice.</span><span id="kobo.302.4">﻿ ﻿… He points his finger at the dishes on the bill of fare which he wants.</span><span id="kobo.302.5">﻿ ﻿… He has finished in twenty minutes; then he pays and goes.</span><span id="kobo.302.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“And he comes back again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“Every three or four days. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">He’s not regular.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“It’s he, it cannot be anyone else,” said Lupin to himself. </span><span id="kobo.305.2">“It’s Malreich. </span><span id="kobo.305.3">There he is﻿ ﻿… breathing﻿ ﻿… at four steps from me. </span><span id="kobo.305.4">There are the hands that kill. </span><span id="kobo.305.5">There is the brain that gloats upon the smell of blood. </span><span id="kobo.305.6">There is the monster, the vampire!</span><span id="kobo.305.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">And, yet, was it possible? </span><span id="kobo.306.2">Lupin had ended by looking upon Malreich as so fantastic a being that he was disconcerted at seeing him in the flesh, coming, going, moving. </span><span id="kobo.306.3">He could not explain to himself how the man could eat bread and meat like other men, drink beer like anyone else: </span><span id="kobo.306.4">this man whom he had pictured as a foul beast, feeding on live flesh and sucking the blood of his victims.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“Come away, Doudeville.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">“What’s the matter with you, governor? </span><span id="kobo.308.2">You look quite white!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“I want air. </span><span id="kobo.309.2">Come out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">Outside, he drew a deep breath, wiped the perspiration from his forehead and muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“That’s better. </span><span id="kobo.311.2">I was stifling.” </span><span id="kobo.311.3">And, mastering himself, he added, “Now we must play our game cautiously and not lose sight of his tracks.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“Hadn’t we better separate, governor? </span><span id="kobo.312.2">Our man saw us together. </span><span id="kobo.312.3">He will take less notice of us singly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Did he see us?” </span><span id="kobo.313.2">said Lupin, pensively. </span><span id="kobo.313.3">“He seems to me to see nothing, to hear nothing and to look at nothing. </span><span id="kobo.313.4">What a bewildering specimen!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">And, in fact, ten minutes later, Leon Massier appeared and walked away, without even looking to see if he was followed. </span><span id="kobo.314.2">He had lit a cigarette and smoked, with one of his hands behind his back, strolling along like a saunterer enjoying the sunshine and the fresh air and never suspecting that his movements could possibly be watched.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">He passed through the tollgates, skirted the fortifications, went out again through the Porte Champerret and retraced his steps along the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.315.2">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.316.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">Would he enter the buildings at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.318.2">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.319.1"> 3? </span><span id="kobo.319.2">Lupin eagerly hoped that he would, for that would have been a certain proof of his complicity with the Altenheim gang; but the man turned round and made for the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.320.1">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.321.1">, which he followed until he passed the Velodrome Buffalo.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">On the left, opposite the cycling-track, between the public tennis-court and the booths that line the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.323.2">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.324.1">, stood a small detached villa, surrounded by a scanty garden. </span><span id="kobo.324.2">Leon Massier stopped, took out his keys, opened first the gate of the garden and then the door of the house and disappeared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">Lupin crept forward cautiously. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">He at once noticed that the block in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.326.3">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.327.1"> stretched back as far as the garden-wall. </span><span id="kobo.327.2">Coming still nearer, he saw that the wall was very high and that a coach-house rested against it at the bottom of the garden. </span><span id="kobo.327.3">The position of the buildings was such as to give him the certainty that his coach-house stood back to back with the coach-house in the inner yard of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.328.1">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.329.1"> 3, which served as a lumber-room for the Broker.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">Leon Massier, therefore, occupied a house adjoining the place in which the seven members of the Altenheim gang held their meetings. </span><span id="kobo.331.2">Consequently, Leon Massier was, in point of fact, the supreme leader who commanded that gang; and there was evidently a passage between the two coach-houses through which he communicated with his followers.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“I was right,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.332.2">“Leon Massier and Louis de Malreich are one and the same man. </span><span id="kobo.332.3">The situation is much simpler than it was.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“There is no doubt about that,” said Doudeville, “and everything will be settled in a few days.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“That is to say, I shall have been stabbed in the throat.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“What are you saying, governor? </span><span id="kobo.335.2">There’s an idea!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“Pooh, who knows? </span><span id="kobo.336.2">I have always had a presentiment that that monster would bring me ill-luck.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.338.1">Thenceforth it became a matter of watching Malreich’s life in such a way that none of his movements went unobserved. </span><span id="kobo.338.2">This life was of the oddest, if one could believe the people of the neighborhood whom Doudeville questioned. </span><span id="kobo.338.3">“The bloke from the villa,” as they called him, had been living there for a few months only. </span><span id="kobo.338.4">He saw and received nobody. </span><span id="kobo.338.5">He was not known to keep a servant of any kind. </span><span id="kobo.338.6">And the windows, though they were left wide open, even at night, always remained dark and were never lit with the glow of a lamp or candle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">Moreover, Leon Massier most often went out at the close of day and did not come in again until very late﻿ ﻿… at dawn, said people who had come upon him at sunrise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“And does anyone know what he does?” </span><span id="kobo.340.2">asked Lupin of his companion, when they next met.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“No, he leads an absolutely irregular existence. </span><span id="kobo.341.2">He sometimes disappears for several days together﻿ ﻿… or, rather, he remains indoors. </span><span id="kobo.341.3">When all is said, nobody knows anything.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“Well, we shall know; and that soon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">He was wrong. </span><span id="kobo.343.2">After a week of continuous efforts and investigations, he had learnt no more than before about that strange individual. </span><span id="kobo.343.3">The extraordinary thing that constantly happened was this, that, suddenly, while Lupin was following him, the man, who was ambling with short steps along the streets, without ever turning round or ever stopping, the man would vanish as if by a miracle. </span><span id="kobo.343.4">True, he sometimes went through houses with two entrances. </span><span id="kobo.343.5">But, at other times, he seemed to fade away in the midst of the crowd, like a ghost. </span><span id="kobo.343.6">And Lupin was left behind, petrified, astounded, filled with rage and confusion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">He at once hurried to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.344.2">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.345.1"> and stood on guard outside the villa. </span><span id="kobo.345.2">Minutes followed upon minutes, half-hour upon half-hour. </span><span id="kobo.345.3">A part of the night slipped away. </span><span id="kobo.345.4">Then, suddenly, the mysterious man hove in sight. </span><span id="kobo.345.5">What could he have been doing?</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.348.1">“An express message for you, governor,” said Doudeville, at eight o’clock one evening, as he joined him in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.348.2">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.349.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">Lupin opened the envelope. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.351.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.352.1"> Kesselbach implored him to come to her aid. </span><span id="kobo.352.2">It appeared that two men had taken up their stand under her windows, at night, and one of them had said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“What luck, we’ve dazzled them completely this time! </span><span id="kobo.354.2">So it’s understood; we shall strike the blow tonight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.355.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.356.1"> Kesselbach thereupon went downstairs and discovered that the shutter in the pantry did not fasten, or, at least, that it could be opened from the outside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“At last,” said Lupin, “it’s the enemy himself who offers to give battle. </span><span id="kobo.358.2">That’s a good thing! </span><span id="kobo.358.3">I am tired of marching up and down under Malreich’s windows.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“Is he there at this moment?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“No, he played me one of his tricks again in Paris, just as I was about to play him one of mine. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">But, first of all, listen to me, Doudeville. </span><span id="kobo.360.3">Go and collect ten of our men and bring them to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.360.4">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.361.1">. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Look here, bring Marco and Jérôme, the messenger. </span><span id="kobo.361.3">I have given them a holiday since the business at the Palace Hotel: </span><span id="kobo.361.4">let them come this time. </span><span id="kobo.361.5">Daddy Charolais and his son ought to be mounting guard by now. </span><span id="kobo.361.6">Make your arrangements with them, and at half-past eleven, come and join me at the corner of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.362.1">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.363.1"> and the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.364.1">Rue Raynouard</span><span id="kobo.365.1">. </span><span id="kobo.365.2">From there we will watch the house.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">Doudeville went away. </span><span id="kobo.367.2">Lupin waited for an hour longer, until that quiet thoroughfare, the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.367.3">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.368.1">, was quite deserted, and then, seeing that Leon Massier did not return, he made up his mind and went up to the villa.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">There was no one in sight.</span><span id="kobo.370.2">﻿ ﻿… He took a run and jumped on the stone ledge that supported the railings of the garden. </span><span id="kobo.370.3">A few minutes later, he was inside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">His plan was to force the door of the house and search the rooms in order to find the Emperor’s letters which Malreich had stolen from Veldenz. </span><span id="kobo.371.2">But he thought a visit to the coach-house of more immediate importance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">He was much surprised to see that it was open and, next, to find, by the light of his electric lantern, that it was absolutely empty and that there was no door in the back wall. </span><span id="kobo.372.2">He hunted about for a long time, but met with no more success. </span><span id="kobo.372.3">Outside, however, he saw a ladder standing against the coach-house and obviously serving as a means of reaching a sort of loft contrived under the slate roof.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">The loft was blocked with old packing-cases, trusses of straw and gardener’s frames, or rather it seemed to be blocked, for he very soon discovered a gangway that took him to the wall. </span><span id="kobo.373.2">Here, he knocked up against a cucumber-frame, which he tried to move. </span><span id="kobo.373.3">Failing to effect his purpose, he examined the frame more closely and found, first, that it was fixed to the wall and, secondly, that one of the panes was missing. </span><span id="kobo.373.4">He passed his arm through and encountered space. </span><span id="kobo.373.5">He cast the bright light of the lantern through the aperture and saw a big shed, a coach-house larger than that of the villa and filled with old ironwork and objects of every kind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“That’s it,” said Lupin to himself. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">“This window has been contrived in the Broker’s lumber-room, right up at the top, and from here Louis de Malreich sees, hears and watches his accomplices, without being seen or heard by them. </span><span id="kobo.374.3">I now understand how it is that they do not know their leader.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">Having found out what he wanted, he put out his light and was on the point of leaving, when a door opened opposite him, down below. </span><span id="kobo.375.2">Someone came in and lit a lamp. </span><span id="kobo.375.3">He recognized the Broker. </span><span id="kobo.375.4">He thereupon resolved to stay where he was, since the expedition, after all, could not be done so long as that man was there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">The Broker took two revolvers from his pocket. </span><span id="kobo.376.2">He tested the triggers and changed the cartridges, whistling a music-hall tune as he did so.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">An hour elapsed in this way. </span><span id="kobo.377.2">Lupin was beginning to grow restless, without, however, making up his mind to go.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">More minutes passed, half an hour, an hour.</span><span id="kobo.378.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">At last, the man said aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“Come in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">One of the scoundrels slipped into the shed; and, one after the other, a third arrived and a fourth.</span><span id="kobo.381.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“We are all here,” said the Broker. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">“Dieudonne and Chubby will meet us down there. </span><span id="kobo.382.3">Come, we’ve no time to lose.</span><span id="kobo.382.4">﻿ ﻿… Are you armed?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">“To the teeth.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“That’s all right. </span><span id="kobo.384.2">It’ll be hot work.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">“How do you know, Broker?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">“I’ve seen the chief.</span><span id="kobo.386.2">﻿ ﻿… When I say that I’ve seen him, no﻿ ﻿… but he spoke to me.</span><span id="kobo.386.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“Yes,” said one of the men, “in the dark, at a street-corner, as usual. </span><span id="kobo.387.2">Ah, Altenheim’s ways were better than that. </span><span id="kobo.387.3">At least, one knew what one was doing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">“And don’t you know?” </span><span id="kobo.388.2">retorted the Broker. </span><span id="kobo.388.3">“We’re breaking in at the Kesselbach woman’s.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“And what about the two watchers? </span><span id="kobo.389.2">The two coves whom Lupin posted there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">“That’s their lookout: </span><span id="kobo.390.2">there’s seven of us. </span><span id="kobo.390.3">They had better give us as little trouble as possible.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“What about the Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">“Gag her first, then bind her and bring her here.</span><span id="kobo.392.2">﻿ ﻿… There, on that old sofa.</span><span id="kobo.392.3">﻿ ﻿… And then wait for orders.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">“Is the job well paid?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">“The Kesselbach’s jewels to begin with.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">“Yes, if it comes off﻿ ﻿… but I’m speaking of the certainty.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“Three hundred-franc notes apiece, beforehand, and twice as much again afterwards.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">“Have you the money?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">“That’s all right. </span><span id="kobo.399.2">You can say what you like, but, as far as paying goes, there’s no one to equal that bloke.” </span><span id="kobo.399.3">And, in a voice so low that Lupin could hardly hear, “I say, Broker, if we’re obliged to use the knife, is there a reward?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">“The same as usual, two thousand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“If it’s Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“Three thousand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">“Oh, if we could only get him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">One after the other, they left the lumber-room. </span><span id="kobo.404.2">Lupin heard the Broker’s parting words:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">“This is the plan of attack. </span><span id="kobo.405.2">We divide into three lots. </span><span id="kobo.405.3">A whistle; and everyone runs forward.</span><span id="kobo.405.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.406.1">Lupin hurriedly left his hiding-place, went down the ladder, ran round the house, without going in, and climbed back over the railings:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.407.1">“The Broker’s right; it’ll be hot work.</span><span id="kobo.407.2">﻿ ﻿… Ah, it’s my skin they’re after! </span><span id="kobo.407.3">A reward for Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.407.4">The rascals!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">He passed through the tollgate and jumped into a taxi:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.409.1">“Rue Raynouard.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.410.1">He stopped the cab at two hundred yards from the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.410.2">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.411.1"> and walked to the corner of the two streets. </span><span id="kobo.411.2">To his great surprise, Doudeville was not there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">“That’s funny,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.413.2">“It’s past twelve.</span><span id="kobo.413.3">﻿ ﻿… This business looks suspicious to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.414.1">He waited ten minutes, twenty minutes. </span><span id="kobo.414.2">At half-past twelve, nobody had arrived. </span><span id="kobo.414.3">Further delay was dangerous. </span><span id="kobo.414.4">After all, if Doudeville and his men were prevented from coming, Charolais, his son and he, Lupin, himself were enough to repel the attack, without counting the assistance of the servants.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.415.1">He therefore went ahead. </span><span id="kobo.415.2">But he caught sight of two men who tried to hide in the shadow of a corner wall.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.416.1">“Hang it!” </span><span id="kobo.416.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.416.3">“That’s the vanguard of the gang, Dieudonne and Chubby. </span><span id="kobo.416.4">I’ve allowed myself to be outdistanced, like a fool.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.417.1">Here he lost more time. </span><span id="kobo.417.2">Should he go straight up to them, disable them and then climb into the house through the pantry-window, which he knew to be unlocked? </span><span id="kobo.417.3">That would be the most prudent course and would enable him, moreover, to take </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.417.4">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.418.1"> Kesselbach away at once and to remove her to a place of safety.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">Yes, but it also meant the failure of his plan; it meant missing this glorious opportunity of trapping the whole gang, including Louis de Malreich himself, without doubt.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">Suddenly a whistle sounded from somewhere on the other side of the house. </span><span id="kobo.421.2">Was it the rest of the gang, so soon? </span><span id="kobo.421.3">And was an offensive movement to be made from the garden?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.422.1">But, at the preconcerted signal, the two men climbed through the window and disappeared from view.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.423.1">Lupin scaled the balcony at a bound and jumped into the pantry. </span><span id="kobo.423.2">By the sound of their footsteps, he judged that the assailants had gone into the garden; and the sound was so distinct that he felt easy in his mind: </span><span id="kobo.423.3">Charolais and his son could not fail to hear the noise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">He therefore went upstairs. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.424.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.425.1"> Kesselbach’s bedroom was on the first landing. </span><span id="kobo.425.2">He walked in without knocking.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">A night-light was burning in the room; and he saw Dolores, on a sofa, fainting. </span><span id="kobo.427.2">He ran up to her, lifted her and, in a voice of command, forcing her to answer:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">“Listen.</span><span id="kobo.428.2">﻿ ﻿… Charolais? </span><span id="kobo.428.3">His son﻿ ﻿… Where are they?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">She stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.430.1">“Why, what do you mean?</span><span id="kobo.430.2">﻿ ﻿… They’re gone, of course!</span><span id="kobo.430.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">“What, gone?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">“You sent me word﻿ ﻿… an hour ago﻿ ﻿… a telephone-message.</span><span id="kobo.432.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">He picked up a piece of blue paper lying beside her and read:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.434.1">“Send the two watchers away at once﻿ ﻿… and all my men.</span><span id="kobo.434.2">﻿ ﻿… Tell them to meet me at the Grand Hotel. </span><span id="kobo.434.3">Have no fear.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.436.1">“Thunder! </span><span id="kobo.436.2">And you believed it?</span><span id="kobo.436.3">﻿ ﻿… But your servants?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">“Gone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">He went up to the window. </span><span id="kobo.438.2">Outside, three men were coming from the other end of the garden.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">From the window in the next room, which looked out on the street, he saw two others, on the pavement.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.440.1">And he thought of Dieudonne, of Chubby, of Louis de Malreich, above all, who must now be prowling around, invisible and formidable.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.441.1">“Hang it!” </span><span id="kobo.441.2">he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.441.3">“I half believe they’ve done me this time!”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>