<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>VIII: The Olive-Green Frock-Coat</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-8" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">VIII</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Olive-Green Frock-Coat</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">A quarter past twelve, in a restaurant near the Madeleine. </span><span id="kobo.4.2">The prince is at lunch. </span><span id="kobo.4.3">Two young men sit down at the next table. </span><span id="kobo.4.4">He bows to them and begins to speak to them, as to friends whom he has met by chance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">“Are you going on the expedition, eh?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">“How many men altogether?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">“Six, I think. </span><span id="kobo.8.2">Each goes down by himself. </span><span id="kobo.8.3">We’re to meet </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.8.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.9.1"> Weber at a quarter to two, near the House of Retreat.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“Very well, I shall be there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“Am I not leading the expedition? </span><span id="kobo.13.2">And isn’t it my business to find </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.13.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.14.1"> Lenormand, seeing that I’ve announced it publicly?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Then you believe that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.16.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.17.1"> Lenormand is not dead, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“I’m sure of it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“Do you know anything?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“Yes, since yesterday I know for certain that Altenheim and his gang took </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.21.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.22.1"> Lenormand and Gourel to the bridge at Bougival and heaved them overboard. </span><span id="kobo.22.2">Gourel sank, but </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.23.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.24.1"> Lenormand managed to save himself. </span><span id="kobo.24.2">I shall furnish all the necessary proofs when the time comes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“But, then, if he’s alive, why doesn’t he show himself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“Because he’s not free.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">“Is what you said true, then? </span><span id="kobo.28.2">Is he in the cellars of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.28.3">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.29.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">“I have every reason to think so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">“But how do you know?</span><span id="kobo.32.2">﻿ ﻿… What clue?</span><span id="kobo.32.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">“That’s my secret. </span><span id="kobo.33.2">I can tell you one thing: </span><span id="kobo.33.3">the revelation will be﻿—what shall I say﻿—sensational. </span><span id="kobo.33.4">Have you finished?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">“My car is behind the Madeleine. </span><span id="kobo.35.2">Join me there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">At Garches, Sernine sent the motor away, and they walked to the path that led to Geneviève’s school. </span><span id="kobo.36.2">There he stopped:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">“Listen to me, lads. </span><span id="kobo.37.2">This is of the highest importance. </span><span id="kobo.37.3">You will ring at the House of Retreat. </span><span id="kobo.37.4">As inspectors, you have your right of entry, have you not? </span><span id="kobo.37.5">You will then go to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.37.6">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.38.1">, the empty one. </span><span id="kobo.38.2">There you will run down to the basement and you will find an old shutter, which you have only to lift to see the opening of a tunnel which I discovered lately and which forms a direct communication with the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.39.1">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.40.1">. </span><span id="kobo.40.2">It was by means of this that Gertrude and Baron Altenheim used to meet. </span><span id="kobo.40.3">And it was this way that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.41.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.42.1"> Lenormand passed, only to end by falling into the hands of his enemies.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“You think so, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“Yes, I think so. </span><span id="kobo.45.2">And now the point is this: </span><span id="kobo.45.3">you must go and make sure that the tunnel is exactly in the condition in which I left it last night; that the two doors which bar it are open; and that there is still, in a hole near the second door, a parcel wrapped in a piece of black cloth which I put there myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“Are we to undo the parcel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“No, that’s not necessary. </span><span id="kobo.47.2">It’s a change of clothes. </span><span id="kobo.47.3">Go; and don’t let yourselves be seen more than you can help. </span><span id="kobo.47.4">I will wait for you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">Ten minutes later, they were back:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“The two doors are open,” said one of the Doudevilles.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“And the black cloth parcel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“In its place near the second door.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“Capital! </span><span id="kobo.52.2">It is twenty-five past one. </span><span id="kobo.52.3">Weber will be arriving with his champions. </span><span id="kobo.52.4">They are to watch the villa. </span><span id="kobo.52.5">They will surround it as soon as Altenheim is inside. </span><span id="kobo.52.6">I have arranged with Weber that I shall ring the bell; the door will be opened; and I shall have my foot inside the citadel. </span><span id="kobo.52.7">Once there, I have my plan. </span><span id="kobo.52.8">Come, I’ve an idea that we shall see some fun.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">And Sernine, after dismissing them, walked down the path to the school, soliloquizing as he went:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“All bodes well. </span><span id="kobo.54.2">The battle will be fought on the ground chosen by myself. </span><span id="kobo.54.3">I am bound to win. </span><span id="kobo.54.4">I shall get rid of my two adversaries and I shall find myself alone engaged in the Kesselbach case﻿ ﻿… alone, with two whacking trump-cards: </span><span id="kobo.54.5">Pierre Leduc and Steinweg.</span><span id="kobo.54.6">﻿ ﻿… Besides the king﻿ ﻿… that is to say, Bibi. </span><span id="kobo.54.7">Only, there’s one thing: </span><span id="kobo.54.8">what is Altenheim up to? </span><span id="kobo.54.9">Obviously, he has a plan of attack of his own. </span><span id="kobo.54.10">On which side does he mean to attack me? </span><span id="kobo.54.11">And how does it come that he has not attacked me yet? </span><span id="kobo.54.12">It’s rather startling. </span><span id="kobo.54.13">Can he have denounced me to the police?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">He went along the little playground of the school. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">The pupils were at their lessons. </span><span id="kobo.55.3">He knocked at the door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“Ah, is that you?” </span><span id="kobo.56.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.56.3">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.57.1"> Ernemont, opening the door. </span><span id="kobo.57.2">“So you have left Geneviève in Paris?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“For me to do that, Geneviève would have to be in Paris,” he replied.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“So she has been, seeing that you sent for her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“What’s that?” </span><span id="kobo.61.2">he exclaimed catching hold of her arm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Why, you know better than I!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“I know nothing.</span><span id="kobo.63.2">﻿ ﻿… I know nothing.</span><span id="kobo.63.3">﻿ ﻿… Speak!</span><span id="kobo.63.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“Didn’t you write to Geneviève to meet you at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.64.2">Gare Saint-Lazare</span><span id="kobo.65.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“And did she go?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“Why, of course.</span><span id="kobo.68.2">﻿ ﻿… You were to lunch together at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.68.3">Hôtel Ritz</span><span id="kobo.69.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“The letter.</span><span id="kobo.71.2">﻿ ﻿… Show me the letter.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">She went to fetch it and gave it to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“But, wretched woman, couldn’t you see that it was a forgery? </span><span id="kobo.73.2">The handwriting is a good imitation﻿ ﻿… but it’s a forgery.</span><span id="kobo.73.3">﻿ ﻿… Anyone can see that.” </span><span id="kobo.73.4">He pressed his clenched hands to his temples with rage. </span><span id="kobo.73.5">“That’s the move I was wondering about. </span><span id="kobo.73.6">Oh, the dirty scoundrel! </span><span id="kobo.73.7">He’s attacking me through her.</span><span id="kobo.73.8">﻿ ﻿… But how does he know? </span><span id="kobo.73.9">No, he does not know.</span><span id="kobo.73.10">﻿ ﻿… He’s tried it on twice now﻿ ﻿… and it’s because of Geneviève, because he’s taken a fancy to her.</span><span id="kobo.73.11">﻿ ﻿… Oh, not that! </span><span id="kobo.73.12">Never! </span><span id="kobo.73.13">Listen, Victoire, are you sure that she doesn’t love him?</span><span id="kobo.73.14">﻿ ﻿… Oh, I’m losing my head!</span><span id="kobo.73.15">﻿ ﻿… Wait﻿ ﻿… wait!</span><span id="kobo.73.16">﻿ ﻿… I must think﻿ ﻿… this isn’t the moment.</span><span id="kobo.73.17">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">He looked at his watch:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">“Twenty-five minutes to two.</span><span id="kobo.75.2">﻿ ﻿… I have time.</span><span id="kobo.75.3">﻿ ﻿… Idiot that I am! </span><span id="kobo.75.4">Time to do what? </span><span id="kobo.75.5">How do I know where she is?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">He walked up and down like a madman; and his old nurse seemed astounded at seeing him so excited, with so little control of himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“After all,” she said, “there is nothing to prove that she did not suspect the trap at the last moment.</span><span id="kobo.77.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“Where could she be?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“I don’t know﻿ ﻿… perhaps at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.79.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.80.1"> Kesselbach’s.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“That’s true﻿ ﻿… that’s true.</span><span id="kobo.82.2">﻿ ﻿… You’re right,” he cried, filled with sudden hope.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">And he set out at a run for the House of Retreat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">On the way, near the gate, he met the brothers Doudeville, who were entering the porter’s lodge. </span><span id="kobo.84.2">The lodge looked out on the road; and this enabled them to watch the approaches to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.84.3">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.85.1">. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">Without stopping, he went straight to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.86.1">Pavillon de l’Impératrice</span><span id="kobo.87.1">, called Suzanne and told her to take him to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.88.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.89.1"> Kesselbach.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“Geneviève?” </span><span id="kobo.91.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“Yes; hasn’t she been here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“No, not for several days.</span><span id="kobo.94.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“But she is to come, is she not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">“Do you think so?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">“Why, I’m certain of it. </span><span id="kobo.97.2">Where do you think she is? </span><span id="kobo.97.3">Can you remember?</span><span id="kobo.97.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“It’s no use my trying. </span><span id="kobo.98.2">I assure you that Geneviève and I had made no arrangement to see each other.” </span><span id="kobo.98.3">And, suddenly alarmed: </span><span id="kobo.98.4">“But you’re not anxious, are you? </span><span id="kobo.98.5">Has anything happened to Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“No, nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">He had already left the room. </span><span id="kobo.100.2">An idea had occurred to him. </span><span id="kobo.100.3">Suppose Altenheim were not at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.100.4">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.101.1">? </span><span id="kobo.101.2">Suppose the hour of the meeting had been changed!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“I must see him,” he said to himself. </span><span id="kobo.103.2">“I must, at all costs.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">And he ran along with a disordered air, indifferent to everything. </span><span id="kobo.104.2">But, in front of the lodge, he at once recovered his composure: </span><span id="kobo.104.3">he had caught sight of the deputy-chief of the detective-service talking to the brothers Doudeville in the garden.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">Had he commanded his usual acute discernment, he would have perceived the little start which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.105.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.106.1"> Weber gave as he approached; but he saw nothing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.108.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.109.1"> Weber, I believe?” </span><span id="kobo.109.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“Yes.</span><span id="kobo.111.2">﻿ ﻿… To whom have I the honor﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Prince Sernine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“Ah, very good! </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.113.2">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.114.1"> de Police has told me of the great service which you are doing us, monsieur.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“That service will not be complete until I have handed the ruffians over to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“That won’t take long. </span><span id="kobo.117.2">I believe that one of those ruffians has just gone in; a powerful-looking man, with a swarthy complexion.</span><span id="kobo.117.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Yes, that’s Baron Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.118.2">Are your men here, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.118.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.119.1"> Weber?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“Yes, concealed along the road, at two hundred yards from this.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“Well, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.122.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.123.1"> Weber, it seems to me that you might collect them and bring them to this lodge. </span><span id="kobo.123.2">From here we will go to the villa. </span><span id="kobo.123.3">As Baron Altenheim knows me, I presume they will open the door to me and I will go in﻿ ﻿… with you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“It is an excellent plan,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.125.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.126.1"> Weber. </span><span id="kobo.126.2">“I shall come back at once.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">He left the garden and walked down the road, in the opposite direction to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.128.2">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.129.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">Sernine quickly took one of the brothers Doudeville by the arm:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“Run after him, Jacques﻿ ﻿… keep him engaged﻿ ﻿… long enough for me to get inside the Glycines.</span><span id="kobo.132.2">﻿ ﻿… And then delay the attack as long as you can.</span><span id="kobo.132.3">﻿ ﻿… Invent pretexts.</span><span id="kobo.132.4">﻿ ﻿… I shall want ten minutes.</span><span id="kobo.132.5">﻿ ﻿… Let the villa be surrounded﻿ ﻿… but not entered. </span><span id="kobo.132.6">And you, Jean, go and post yourself in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.132.7">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.133.1">, at the entrance to the underground passage. </span><span id="kobo.133.2">If the baron tries to go out that way, break his head.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">The Doudevilles moved away, as ordered. </span><span id="kobo.135.2">The prince slipped out and ran to a tall gate, barred with iron, which was the entrance to the Glycines.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">Should he ring?</span><span id="kobo.136.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">There was no one in sight. </span><span id="kobo.137.2">With one bound, he leapt upon the gate, placing his foot on the lock; and, hanging on to the bars, getting a purchase with his knees and hoisting himself up with his wrists, he managed, at the risk of falling on the sharp points of the bars, to climb over the gate and jump down.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">He found a paved courtyard, which he crossed briskly, and mounted the steps of a pillared peristyle, on which the windows looked out. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">These were all closed to the very top, with full shutters. </span><span id="kobo.138.3">As he stood thinking how he should make his way into the house, the door was half opened, with a noise of iron that reminded him of the door in the Villa Dupont, and Altenheim appeared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“I say, prince, is that the way you trespass on private property? </span><span id="kobo.139.2">I shall be forced to call in the gendarmes, my dear fellow!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">Sernine caught him by the throat and, throwing him down on a bench:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“Geneviève?</span><span id="kobo.141.2">﻿ ﻿… Where is Geneviève? </span><span id="kobo.141.3">If you don’t tell me what you’ve done with her, you villain.</span><span id="kobo.141.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“Please observe,” stammered the baron, “that you are making it impossible for me to speak.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">Sernine released his hold of him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“To the point!</span><span id="kobo.144.2">﻿ ﻿… And look sharp!</span><span id="kobo.144.3">﻿ ﻿… Answer.</span><span id="kobo.144.4">﻿ ﻿… Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“There is one thing,” replied the baron, “which is much more urgent, especially where fellows like you and me are concerned, and that is to feel one’s self at home.</span><span id="kobo.145.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">And he carefully closed the front door, which he barricaded with bolts. </span><span id="kobo.146.2">Then, leading Sernine to the adjoining drawing-room, a room without furniture or curtains, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“Now I’m your man. </span><span id="kobo.147.2">What can I do for you, prince?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“She is in perfect health.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Ah, so you confess﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“Of course! </span><span id="kobo.151.2">I may even tell you that your imprudence in this respect surprised me. </span><span id="kobo.151.3">Why didn’t you take a few precautions? </span><span id="kobo.151.4">It was inevitable.</span><span id="kobo.151.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">“Enough! </span><span id="kobo.152.2">Where is she?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“You are not very polite.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">“Where is she?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Between four walls, free.</span><span id="kobo.155.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“Free?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“Yes, free to go from one wall to another.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“Where? </span><span id="kobo.158.2">Where?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“Come, prince, do you think I should be fool enough to tell you the secret by which I hold you? </span><span id="kobo.159.2">You love the little girl﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“Hold your tongue!” </span><span id="kobo.160.2">shouted Sernine, beside himself. </span><span id="kobo.160.3">“I forbid you.</span><span id="kobo.160.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“What next? </span><span id="kobo.161.2">Is there anything to be ashamed of? </span><span id="kobo.161.3">I love her myself and I have risked﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">He did not complete his sentence, frightened by the terrific anger of Sernine, a restrained, dumb anger that distorted the prince’s features.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">They looked at each other for a long time, each of them seeking for the adversary’s weak point. </span><span id="kobo.163.2">At last, Sernine stepped forward and, speaking very distinctly, like a man who is threatening rather than proposing a compact:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“Listen to me,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.164.2">“You remember the offer of partnership which you made me? </span><span id="kobo.164.3">The Kesselbach business for the two of us﻿ ﻿… we were to act together﻿ ﻿… we were to share the profits.</span><span id="kobo.164.4">﻿ ﻿… I refused.</span><span id="kobo.164.5">﻿ ﻿… Today, I accept.</span><span id="kobo.164.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Too late.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“Wait! </span><span id="kobo.166.2">I accept more than that: </span><span id="kobo.166.3">I give the whole business up.</span><span id="kobo.166.4">﻿ ﻿… I shall take no further part in it.</span><span id="kobo.166.5">﻿ ﻿… You shall have it all.</span><span id="kobo.166.6">﻿ ﻿… If necessary, I’ll help you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“What is the condition?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Tell me where Geneviève is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">The baron shrugged his shoulders:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“You’re driveling, Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.170.2">I’m sorry for you﻿ ﻿… at your age.</span><span id="kobo.170.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">There was a fresh silence between the two enemies, a terrible silence. </span><span id="kobo.171.2">Then the baron sneered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“All the same, it’s a holy joy to see you like that, sniveling and begging. </span><span id="kobo.172.2">I say, it seems to me that the private soldier is giving his general a sound beating!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“You ass!” </span><span id="kobo.173.2">muttered Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Prince, I shall send you my seconds this evening﻿ ﻿… if you are still in this world.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“You ass!” </span><span id="kobo.175.2">repeated Sernine, with infinite contempt.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“You would rather settle the matter here and now? </span><span id="kobo.176.2">As you please, prince: </span><span id="kobo.176.3">your last hour has struck. </span><span id="kobo.176.4">You can commend your soul to God. </span><span id="kobo.176.5">You smile! </span><span id="kobo.176.6">That’s a mistake. </span><span id="kobo.176.7">I have one immense advantage over you! </span><span id="kobo.176.8">I kill﻿ ﻿… when it’s necessary.</span><span id="kobo.176.9">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“You ass!” </span><span id="kobo.177.2">said Sernine once more. </span><span id="kobo.177.3">He took out his watch. </span><span id="kobo.177.4">“It is two o’clock, baron. </span><span id="kobo.177.5">You have only a few minutes left. </span><span id="kobo.177.6">At five past two, ten past at the very latest, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.177.7">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.178.1"> Weber and half-a-dozen sturdy men, without a scruple amongst them, will lay hands on you.</span><span id="kobo.178.2">﻿ ﻿… Don’t you smile, either. </span><span id="kobo.178.3">The outlet on which you’re reckoning is discovered; I know it: </span><span id="kobo.178.4">it is guarded. </span><span id="kobo.178.5">So you are thoroughly caught. </span><span id="kobo.178.6">It means the scaffold, old chap.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">Altenheim turned livid. </span><span id="kobo.180.2">He stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“You did this?</span><span id="kobo.181.2">﻿ ﻿… You have had the infamy﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“The house is surrounded. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">The assault is at hand. </span><span id="kobo.182.3">Speak﻿ ﻿… and I will save you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“How?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“The men watching the outlet in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.184.2">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.185.1"> belong to me. </span><span id="kobo.185.2">I have only to give you a word for them and you are saved. </span><span id="kobo.185.3">Speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">Altenheim reflected for a few seconds and seemed to hesitate; but, suddenly, resolutely, declared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“This is all bluff. </span><span id="kobo.188.2">You would never have been simple enough to rush into the lion’s mouth.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“You’re forgetting Geneviève. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">But for her, do you think I should be here? </span><span id="kobo.189.3">Speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.191.2">Let us wait,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.191.3">“A cigarette?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Thank you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">A few seconds passed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“Do you hear?” </span><span id="kobo.194.2">asked Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿…” said Altenheim, rising.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">Blows rang against the gate. </span><span id="kobo.196.2">Sernine observed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Not even the usual summons﻿ ﻿… no preliminaries.</span><span id="kobo.197.2">﻿ ﻿… Your mind is still made up?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">“More so than ever.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“You know that, with the tools they carry, they won’t take long?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">“If they were inside this room I should still refuse.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">The gate yielded. </span><span id="kobo.201.2">They heard it creak on its hinges.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“To allow one’s self to get nabbed,” said Sernine, “is admissible. </span><span id="kobo.202.2">But to hold out one’s own hands to the handcuffs is too silly. </span><span id="kobo.202.3">Come, don’t be obstinate. </span><span id="kobo.202.4">Speak﻿ ﻿… and bolt!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“And you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“I shall remain. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">What have I to be afraid of?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“Look!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">The baron pointed to a chink between the shutters. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">Sernine put his eye to it and jumped back with a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">“Oh, you scoundrel, so you have denounced me, too! </span><span id="kobo.207.2">It’s not ten men that Weber’s bringing, but fifty men, a hundred, two hundred.</span><span id="kobo.207.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">The baron laughed open-heartedly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“And, if there are so many of them, it’s because they’re after Lupin; that’s obvious! </span><span id="kobo.209.2">Half-a-dozen would have been enough for me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“You informed the police?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“What proof did you give?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“Your name: </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.213.2">Paul Sernine</span></em><span id="kobo.214.1">, that is to say, </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.215.1">Arsène Lupin</span></em><span id="kobo.216.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“And you found that out all by yourself, did you?</span><span id="kobo.218.2">﻿ ﻿… A thing which nobody else thought of?</span><span id="kobo.218.3">﻿ ﻿… Nonsense! </span><span id="kobo.218.4">It was the other one. </span><span id="kobo.218.5">Admit it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">He looked out through the chink. </span><span id="kobo.219.2">Swarms of policemen were spreading round the villa; and the blows were now sounding on the door. </span><span id="kobo.219.3">He must, however, think of one of two things: </span><span id="kobo.219.4">either his escape, or else the execution of the plan which he had contrived. </span><span id="kobo.219.5">But to go away, even for a moment, meant leaving Altenheim; and who could guarantee that the baron had not another outlet at his disposal to escape by? </span><span id="kobo.219.6">This thought paralyzed Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.219.7">The baron free! </span><span id="kobo.219.8">The baron at liberty to go back to Geneviève and torture her and make her subservient to his odious love!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">Thwarted in his designs, obliged to improvise a new plan on the very second, while subordinating everything to the danger which Geneviève was running, Sernine passed through a moment of cruel indecision. </span><span id="kobo.220.2">With his eyes fixed on the baron’s eyes, he would have liked to tear his secret from him and to go away; and he no longer even tried to convince him, so useless did all words seem to him. </span><span id="kobo.220.3">And, while pursuing his own thoughts, he asked himself what the baron’s thoughts could be, what his weapons, what his hope of safety?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">The hall-door, though strongly bolted, though sheeted with iron, was beginning to give way.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">The two men stood behind that door, motionless. </span><span id="kobo.222.2">The sound of voices, the sense of words reached them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“You seem very sure of yourself,” said Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“I should think so!” </span><span id="kobo.224.2">cried the other, suddenly tripping him to the floor and running away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">Sernine sprang up at once, dived through a little door under the staircase, through which Altenheim had disappeared, and ran down the stone steps to the basement.</span><span id="kobo.225.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">A passage led to a large, low, almost pitch-dark room, where he found the baron on his knees, lifting the flap of a trap-door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">“Idiot!” </span><span id="kobo.227.2">shouted Sernine, flinging himself upon him. </span><span id="kobo.227.3">“You know that you will find my men at the end of this tunnel and that they have orders to kill you like a dog.</span><span id="kobo.227.4">﻿ ﻿… Unless﻿ ﻿… unless you have an outlet that joins on to this.</span><span id="kobo.227.5">﻿ ﻿… Ah, there, of course, I’ve guessed it!</span><span id="kobo.227.6">﻿ ﻿… And you imagine﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">The fight was a desperate one. </span><span id="kobo.228.2">Altenheim, a real colossus, endowed with exceptional muscular force, had caught his adversary round the arms and body and was pressing him against his own chest, numbing his arms and trying to smother him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“Of course﻿ ﻿… of course,” Sernine panted, with difficulty, “of course﻿ ﻿… that’s well thought out.</span><span id="kobo.229.2">﻿ ﻿… As long as I can’t use my arms to break some part of you, you will have the advantage﻿ ﻿… Only﻿ ﻿… can you﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">He gave a shudder. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">The trap-door, which had closed again and on the flap of which they were bearing down with all their weight, the trap-door seemed to move beneath them. </span><span id="kobo.230.3">He felt the efforts that were being made to raise it; and the baron must have felt them too, for he desperately tried to shift the ground of the contest so that the trap-door might open.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“It’s ‘the other one’!” </span><span id="kobo.231.2">thought Sernine, with the sort of unreasoning terror which that mysterious being caused him. </span><span id="kobo.231.3">“It’s the other one.</span><span id="kobo.231.4">﻿ ﻿… If he gets through, I’m done for.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">By dint of imperceptible movements, Altenheim had succeeded in shifting his own position; and he tried to drag his adversary after him. </span><span id="kobo.232.2">But Sernine clung with his legs to the baron’s legs and, at the same time, very gradually, tried to release one of his hands.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">Above their heads great blows resounded, like the blows of a battering-ram.</span><span id="kobo.233.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“I have five minutes,” thought Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.234.2">“In one minute this fellow will have to﻿ ﻿…” Then, speaking aloud, “Look out, old chap. </span><span id="kobo.234.3">Stand tight!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">He brought his two knees together with incredible force. </span><span id="kobo.235.2">The baron yelled, with a twisted thigh. </span><span id="kobo.235.3">Then Sernine, taking advantage of his adversary’s pain, made an effort, freed his right arm and seized him by the throat:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“That’s capital!</span><span id="kobo.236.2">﻿ ﻿… We shall be more comfortable like this.</span><span id="kobo.236.3">﻿ ﻿… No, it’s not worth while getting out your knife.</span><span id="kobo.236.4">﻿ ﻿… If you do, I’ll wring your neck like a chicken’s. </span><span id="kobo.236.5">You see, I’m polite and considerate.</span><span id="kobo.236.6">﻿ ﻿… I’m not pressing too hard﻿ ﻿… just enough to keep you from even wanting to kick about.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">While speaking he took from his pocket a very thin cord and, with one hand, with extreme skill, fastened his wrists. </span><span id="kobo.237.2">For that matter, the baron, now at his last gasp, offered not the least resistance. </span><span id="kobo.237.3">With a few accurate movements, Sernine tied him up firmly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“How well you’re behaving! </span><span id="kobo.238.2">What a good thing! </span><span id="kobo.238.3">I should hardly know you. </span><span id="kobo.238.4">Here, in case you were thinking of escaping, I have a roll of wire that will finish off my little work.</span><span id="kobo.238.5">﻿ ﻿… The wrists first.</span><span id="kobo.238.6">﻿ ﻿… Now the ankles.</span><span id="kobo.238.7">﻿ ﻿… That’s it!</span><span id="kobo.238.8">﻿ ﻿… By Jove, how nice you look!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">The baron had gradually come to himself again. </span><span id="kobo.239.2">He spluttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“If you give me up, Geneviève will die.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Really?</span><span id="kobo.241.2">﻿ ﻿… And how?</span><span id="kobo.241.3">﻿ ﻿… Explain yourself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">“She is locked up. </span><span id="kobo.242.2">No one knows where she is. </span><span id="kobo.242.3">If I’m put away, she will die of starvation.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">Sernine shuddered. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">He retorted:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“Yes, but you will speak.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">“Never!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Yes, you will speak. </span><span id="kobo.246.2">Not now; it’s too late. </span><span id="kobo.246.3">But tonight.” </span><span id="kobo.246.4">He bent down over him and, whispering in his ear, said, “Listen, Altenheim, and understand what I say. </span><span id="kobo.246.5">You’ll be caught presently. </span><span id="kobo.246.6">Tonight, you’ll sleep at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.246.7">Dépôt</span><span id="kobo.247.1">. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">That is fatal, irrevocable. </span><span id="kobo.247.3">I myself can do nothing to prevent it now. </span><span id="kobo.247.4">And, tomorrow, they will take you to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.248.1">Santé</span><span id="kobo.249.1">; and later, you know where.</span><span id="kobo.249.2">﻿ ﻿… Well, I’m giving you one more chance of safety. </span><span id="kobo.249.3">Tonight, you understand, I shall come to your cell, at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.250.1">Dépôt</span><span id="kobo.251.1">, and you shall tell me where Geneviève is. </span><span id="kobo.251.2">Two hours later, if you have told the truth, you shall be free. </span><span id="kobo.251.3">If not﻿ ﻿… it means that you don’t attach much value to your head.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">The other made no reply. </span><span id="kobo.253.2">Sernine stood up and listened. </span><span id="kobo.253.3">There was a great crash overhead. </span><span id="kobo.253.4">The entrance-door yielded. </span><span id="kobo.253.5">Footsteps beat the flags of the hall and the floor of the drawing room. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.253.6">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.254.1"> Weber and his men were searching.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“Goodbye, baron. </span><span id="kobo.256.2">Think it over until this evening. </span><span id="kobo.256.3">The prison-cell is a good counsellor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">He pushed his prisoner aside, so as to uncover the trap-door, and lifted it. </span><span id="kobo.257.2">As he expected, there was no longer anyone below on the steps of the staircase.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">He went down, taking care to leave the trap-door open behind him, as though he meant to come back.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">There were twenty steps, at the bottom of which began the passage through which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.259.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.260.1"> Lenormand and Gourel had come in the opposite direction. </span><span id="kobo.260.2">He entered it and gave an exclamation. </span><span id="kobo.260.3">He thought he felt somebody’s presence there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">He lit his pocket-lantern. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">The passage was empty.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">Then he cocked his revolver and said aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“All right.</span><span id="kobo.264.2">﻿ ﻿… I’m going to fire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">No reply. </span><span id="kobo.265.2">Not a sound.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“It’s an illusion, no doubt,” he thought. </span><span id="kobo.266.2">“That creature is becoming an obsession.</span><span id="kobo.266.3">﻿ ﻿… Come, if I want to pull off my stroke and win the game, I must hurry.</span><span id="kobo.266.4">﻿ ﻿… The hole in which I hid the parcel of clothes is not far off. </span><span id="kobo.266.5">I shall take the parcel﻿ ﻿… and the trick is done.</span><span id="kobo.266.6">﻿ ﻿… And what a trick! </span><span id="kobo.266.7">One of Lupin’s best!</span><span id="kobo.266.8">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">He came to a door that stood open and at once stopped. </span><span id="kobo.267.2">To the right was an excavation, the one which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.267.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.268.1"> Lenormand had made to escape from the rising water. </span><span id="kobo.268.2">He stooped and threw his light into the opening:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.270.2">he said, with a start. </span><span id="kobo.270.3">“No, it’s not possible﻿ ﻿… Doudeville must have pushed the parcel farther along.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">But, search and pry into the darkness as he might, the parcel was gone; and he had no doubt but that it was once more the mysterious being who had taken it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“What a pity! </span><span id="kobo.272.2">The thing was so neatly arranged! </span><span id="kobo.272.3">The adventure would have resumed its natural course, and I should have achieved my aim with greater certainty.</span><span id="kobo.272.4">﻿ ﻿… As it is, I must push along as fast as I can.</span><span id="kobo.272.5">﻿ ﻿… Doudeville is at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.272.6">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.273.1">.</span><span id="kobo.273.2">﻿ ﻿… My retreat is insured.</span><span id="kobo.273.3">﻿ ﻿… No more nonsense.</span><span id="kobo.273.4">﻿ ﻿… I must hurry and set things straight again, if I can.</span><span id="kobo.273.5">﻿ ﻿… And we’ll attend to ‘him’ afterward.</span><span id="kobo.273.6">﻿ ﻿… Oh, he’d better keep clear of my claws, that one!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">But an exclamation of stupor escaped his lips; he had come to the other door; and this door, the last before the garden-house, was shut. </span><span id="kobo.275.2">He flung himself upon it. </span><span id="kobo.275.3">What was the good? </span><span id="kobo.275.4">What could he do?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“This time,” he muttered, “I’m badly done!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">And, seized with a sort of lassitude, he sat down. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">He had a sense of his weakness in the face of the mysterious being. </span><span id="kobo.277.3">Altenheim hardly counted. </span><span id="kobo.277.4">But the other, that person of darkness and silence, the other loomed up before him, upset all his plans and exhausted him with his cunning and infernal attacks.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">He was beaten.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">Weber would find him there, like an animal run to earth, at the bottom of his cave.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“Ah, no!” </span><span id="kobo.280.2">he cried, springing up with a bound. </span><span id="kobo.280.3">“No! </span><span id="kobo.280.4">If there were only myself, well and good!</span><span id="kobo.280.5">﻿ ﻿… But there is Geneviève, Geneviève, who must be saved tonight.</span><span id="kobo.280.6">﻿ ﻿… After all, the game is not yet lost.</span><span id="kobo.280.7">﻿ ﻿… If the other one vanished just now, it proves that there is a second outlet somewhere near.</span><span id="kobo.280.8">﻿ ﻿… Come, come, Weber and his merry men haven’t got me yet.</span><span id="kobo.280.9">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">He had already begun to explore the tunnel and, lantern in hand, was examining the bricks of which the horrible walls were formed, when a yell reached his ears, a dreadful yell that made his flesh creep with anguish.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">It came from the direction of the trap-door. </span><span id="kobo.282.2">And he suddenly remembered that he had left the trap-door open, at the time when he intended to return to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.282.3">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.283.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">He hurried back and passed through the first door. </span><span id="kobo.285.2">His lantern went out on the road; and he felt something, or rather somebody, brush past his knees, somebody crawl along the wall. </span><span id="kobo.285.3">And, at that same moment, he had a feeling that this being was disappearing, vanishing, he knew not which way.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">Just then his foot knocked against a step.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“This is the outlet,” he thought, “the second outlet through which ‘he’ passes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">Overhead, the cry sounded again, less loud, followed by moans, by a hoarse gurgling.</span><span id="kobo.288.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">He ran up the stairs, came out in the basement room, and rushed to the baron.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">Altenheim lay dying, with the blood streaming from his throat! </span><span id="kobo.290.2">His bonds were cut, but the wire that fastened his wrists and ankles was intact. </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.290.3">His accomplice, being unable to release him, had cut his throat.</span></em></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">Sernine gazed upon the sight with horror. </span><span id="kobo.292.2">An icy perspiration covered his whole body. </span><span id="kobo.292.3">He thought of Geneviève, imprisoned, helpless, abandoned to the most awful of deaths, because the baron alone knew where she was hidden.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">He distinctly heard the policemen open the little back door in the hall. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">He distinctly heard them come down the kitchen stairs.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">There was nothing between him and them save one door, that of the basement room in which he was. </span><span id="kobo.294.2">He bolted the door at the very moment when the aggressors were laying hold of the handle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">The trap-door was open beside him; it meant possible safety, because there remained the second outlet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“No,” he said to himself, “Geneviève first. </span><span id="kobo.296.2">Afterward, if I have time, I will think of myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">He knelt down and put his hand on the baron’s breast. </span><span id="kobo.297.2">The heart was still beating.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">He stooped lower still:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“You can hear me, can’t you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">The eyelids flickered feebly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">The dying man was just breathing. </span><span id="kobo.301.2">Was there anything to be obtained from this faint semblance of life?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">The policemen were attacking the door, the last rampart.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">Sernine whispered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“I will save you.</span><span id="kobo.304.2">﻿ ﻿… I have infallible remedies.</span><span id="kobo.304.3">﻿ ﻿… One word only﻿ ﻿… Geneviève?</span><span id="kobo.304.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">It was as though this word of hope revived the man’s strength. </span><span id="kobo.305.2">Altenheim tried to utter articulate sounds.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“Answer,” said Sernine, persisting. </span><span id="kobo.306.2">“Answer, and I will save you.</span><span id="kobo.306.3">﻿ ﻿… Answer.</span><span id="kobo.306.4">﻿ ﻿… It means your life today﻿ ﻿… your liberty tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.306.5">﻿ ﻿… Answer!</span><span id="kobo.306.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">The door shook under the blows that rained upon it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">The baron gasped out unintelligible syllables. </span><span id="kobo.308.2">Leaning over him, affrighted, straining all his energy, all his will to the utmost, Sernine panted with anguish. </span><span id="kobo.308.3">He no longer gave a thought to the policemen, his inevitable capture, prison.</span><span id="kobo.308.4">﻿ ﻿… But Geneviève.</span><span id="kobo.308.5">﻿ ﻿… Geneviève dying of hunger, whom one word from that villain could set free!</span><span id="kobo.308.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“Answer!</span><span id="kobo.309.2">﻿ ﻿… You must!</span><span id="kobo.309.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">He ordered and entreated by turns. </span><span id="kobo.310.2">Altenheim stammered, as though hypnotized and defeated by that indomitable imperiousness:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“Ri﻿ ﻿… Rivoli.</span><span id="kobo.311.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“Rue de Rivoli, is that it? </span><span id="kobo.312.2">You have locked her up in a house in that street﻿ ﻿… eh? </span><span id="kobo.312.3">Which number?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">A loud din﻿ ﻿… followed by shouts of triumph.</span><span id="kobo.313.2">﻿ ﻿… The door was down.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“Jump on him, lads!” </span><span id="kobo.314.2">cried </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.314.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.315.1"> Weber. </span><span id="kobo.315.2">“Seize him﻿ ﻿… seize both of them!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">And Sernine, on his knees:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“The number﻿ ﻿… answer.</span><span id="kobo.318.2">﻿ ﻿… If you love her, answer.</span><span id="kobo.318.3">﻿ ﻿… Why keep silence now?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“Twenty﻿ ﻿… twenty-seven,” whispered the baron.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">Hands were laid on Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.320.2">Ten revolvers were pointed at him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">He rose and faced the policemen, who fell back with instinctive dread.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“If you stir, Lupin,” cried </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.322.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.323.1"> Weber, with his revolver leveled at him, “I’ll blow out your brains.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“Don’t shoot,” said Sernine, solemnly. </span><span id="kobo.325.2">“It’s not necessary. </span><span id="kobo.325.3">I surrender.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">“Humbug! </span><span id="kobo.326.2">This is another of your tricks!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“No,” replied Sernine, “the battle is lost. </span><span id="kobo.327.2">You have no right to shoot. </span><span id="kobo.327.3">I am not defending myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">He took out two revolvers and threw them on the floor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“Humbug!” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.329.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.330.1"> Weber repeated, implacably. </span><span id="kobo.330.2">“Aim straight at his heart, lads! </span><span id="kobo.330.3">At the least movement, fire! </span><span id="kobo.330.4">At the least word, fire!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">There were ten men there. </span><span id="kobo.332.2">He placed five more in position. </span><span id="kobo.332.3">He pointed their fifteen right arms at the mark. </span><span id="kobo.332.4">And, raging, shaking with joy and fear, he snarled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“At his heart! </span><span id="kobo.333.2">At his head! </span><span id="kobo.333.3">And no pity! </span><span id="kobo.333.4">If he stirs, if he speaks﻿ ﻿… shoot him where he stands!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">Sernine smiled, impassively, with his hands in his pockets. </span><span id="kobo.334.2">Death was there, waiting for him, at two inches from his chest, at two inches from his temples. </span><span id="kobo.334.3">Fifteen fingers were curled round the triggers.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“Ah,” chuckled </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.335.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.336.1"> Weber, “this is nice, this is very nice!</span><span id="kobo.336.2">﻿ ﻿… And I think that this time we’ve scored﻿ ﻿… and it’s a nasty lookout for you, Master Lupin!</span><span id="kobo.336.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">He made one of his men draw back the shutters of a large air-hole, which admitted a sudden burst of daylight, and he turned toward Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.338.2">But, to his great amazement, the baron, whom he thought dead, opened his eyes, glazed, awful eyes, already filled with all the signs of the coming dissolution. </span><span id="kobo.338.3">He stared at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.338.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.339.1"> Weber. </span><span id="kobo.339.2">Then he seemed to look for somebody and, catching sight of Sernine, had a convulsion of anger. </span><span id="kobo.339.3">He seemed to be waking from his torpor; and his suddenly reviving hatred restored a part of his strength.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">He raised himself on his two wrists and tried to speak.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“You know him, eh?” </span><span id="kobo.342.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.342.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.343.1"> Weber.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">“It’s Lupin, isn’t it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">“Yes.</span><span id="kobo.347.2">﻿ ﻿… Lupin.</span><span id="kobo.347.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">Sernine, still smiling, listened:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">“Heavens, how I’m amusing myself!” </span><span id="kobo.349.2">he declared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“Have you anything more to say?” </span><span id="kobo.350.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.350.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.351.1"> Weber, who saw the baron’s lips making desperate attempts to move.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“About </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.354.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.355.1"> Lenormand, perhaps?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“Have you shut him up? </span><span id="kobo.358.2">Where? </span><span id="kobo.358.3">Answer!</span><span id="kobo.358.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">With all his heaving body, with all his tense glance, Altenheim pointed to a cupboard in the corner of the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“There﻿ ﻿… there﻿ ﻿…” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">“Ah, we’re burning!” </span><span id="kobo.361.2">chuckled Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.362.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.363.1"> Weber opened the cupboard. </span><span id="kobo.363.2">On one of the shelves was a parcel wrapped in black cloth. </span><span id="kobo.363.3">He opened it and found a hat, a little box, some clothes.</span><span id="kobo.363.4">﻿ ﻿… He gave a start. </span><span id="kobo.363.5">He had recognized </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.364.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.365.1"> Lenormand’s olive-green frock-coat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">“Oh, the villains!” </span><span id="kobo.367.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.367.3">“They have murdered him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">“No,” said Altenheim, shaking his head.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“Then﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">“It’s he﻿ ﻿… he﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“What do you mean by ‘he’?</span><span id="kobo.371.2">﻿ ﻿… Did Lupin kill the chief?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“No.</span><span id="kobo.372.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">Altenheim was clinging to existence with fierce obstinacy, eager to speak and to accuse.</span><span id="kobo.373.2">﻿ ﻿… The secret which he wished to reveal was at the tip of his tongue and he was not able, did not know how to translate it into words.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“Come,” the deputy-chief insisted. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.374.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.375.1"> Lenormand is dead, surely?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“He’s alive?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“I don’t understand.</span><span id="kobo.380.2">﻿ ﻿… Look here, these clothes? </span><span id="kobo.380.3">This frock-coat?</span><span id="kobo.380.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">Altenheim turned his eyes toward Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">An idea struck </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.381.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.382.1"> Weber:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“Ah, I see! </span><span id="kobo.384.2">Lupin stole </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.384.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.385.1"> Lenormand’s clothes and reckoned upon using them to escape with.</span><span id="kobo.385.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes.</span><span id="kobo.387.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">“Not bad,” cried the deputy-chief. </span><span id="kobo.388.2">“It’s quite a trick in his style. </span><span id="kobo.388.3">In this room, we should have found Lupin disguised as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.388.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.389.1"> Lenormand, chained up, no doubt. </span><span id="kobo.389.2">It would have meant his safety; only he hadn’t time. </span><span id="kobo.389.3">That’s it, isn’t it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">But, by the appearance of the dying man’s eyes, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.392.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.393.1"> Weber felt that there was more, and that the secret was not exactly that. </span><span id="kobo.393.2">What was it, then? </span><span id="kobo.393.3">What was the strange and unintelligible puzzle which Altenheim wanted to explain before dying?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">He questioned him again:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“And where is </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.396.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.397.1"> Lenormand himself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">“There.</span><span id="kobo.399.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">“What do you mean? </span><span id="kobo.400.2">Here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“But there are only ourselves here!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">“There’s﻿ ﻿… there’s﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">“Oh, speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">“There’s﻿ ﻿… Ser﻿ ﻿… Sernine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.406.1">“Sernine!</span><span id="kobo.406.2">﻿ ﻿… Eh, what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.407.1">“Sernine﻿ ﻿… Lenormand.</span><span id="kobo.407.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.408.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.409.1"> Weber gave a jump. </span><span id="kobo.409.2">A sudden light flashed across him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“No, no, it’s not possible,” he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.411.2">“This is madness.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.412.1">He gave a side-glance at his prisoner. </span><span id="kobo.412.2">Sernine seemed to be greatly diverted and to be watching the scene with the air of a playgoer who is thoroughly amused and very anxious to know how the piece is going to end.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">Altenheim, exhausted by his efforts, had fallen back at full length. </span><span id="kobo.413.2">Would he die before revealing the solution of the riddle which his strange words had propounded? </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.413.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.414.1"> Weber, shaken by an absurd, incredible surmise, which he did not wish to entertain and which persisted in his mind in spite of him, made a fresh, determined attempt:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.416.1">“Explain the thing to us.</span><span id="kobo.416.2">﻿ ﻿… What’s at the bottom of it? </span><span id="kobo.416.3">What mystery?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.417.1">The other seemed not to hear and lay lifeless, with staring eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.418.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.419.1"> Weber lay down beside him, with his body touching him, and, putting great stress upon his words, so that each syllable should sink down to the very depths of that brain already merged in darkness, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">“Listen.</span><span id="kobo.421.2">﻿ ﻿… I have understood you correctly, have I not? </span><span id="kobo.421.3">Lupin and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.421.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.422.1"> Lenormand.</span><span id="kobo.422.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">He needed an effort to continue, so monstrous did the words appear to him. </span><span id="kobo.424.2">Nevertheless, the baron’s dimmed eyes seemed to contemplate him with anguish. </span><span id="kobo.424.3">He finished the sentence, shaking with excitement, as though he were speaking blasphemy:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“That’s it, isn’t it? </span><span id="kobo.425.2">You’re sure? </span><span id="kobo.425.3">The two are one and the same?</span><span id="kobo.425.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">The eyes did not move. </span><span id="kobo.426.2">A little blood trickled from one corner of the man’s mouth.</span><span id="kobo.426.3">﻿ ﻿… He gave two or three sobs.</span><span id="kobo.426.4">﻿ ﻿… A last spasm; and all was over﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.428.1">A long silence reigned in that basement room filled with people.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">Almost all the policemen guarding Sernine had turned round and, stupefied, not understanding or not willing to understand, they still listened to the incredible accusation which the dying scoundrel had been unable to put into words.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.430.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.431.1"> Weber took the little box which was in the parcel and opened it. </span><span id="kobo.431.2">It contained a gray wig, a pair of spectacles, a maroon-colored neckerchief and, in a false bottom, a pot or two of makeup and a case containing some tiny tufts of gray hair: </span><span id="kobo.431.3">in short, all that was needed to complete a perfect disguise in the character of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.432.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.433.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">He went up to Sernine and, looking at him for a few seconds without speaking, thoughtfully reconstructing all the phases of the adventure, he muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.436.1">“So it’s true?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">Sernine, who had retained his smiling calmness, replied:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">“The suggestion is a pretty one and a bold one. </span><span id="kobo.438.2">But, before I answer, tell your men to stop worrying me with those toys of theirs.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">“Very well,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.439.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.440.1"> Weber, making a sign to his men. </span><span id="kobo.440.2">“And now answer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“Are you </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.443.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.444.1"> Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">Exclamations arose. </span><span id="kobo.447.2">Jean Doudeville, who was there, while his brother was watching the secret outlet, Jean Doudeville, Sernine’s own accomplice, looked at him in dismay. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.447.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.448.1"> Weber stood undecided.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">“That takes your breath away, eh?” </span><span id="kobo.450.2">said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.450.3">“I admit that it’s rather droll.</span><span id="kobo.450.4">﻿ ﻿… Lord, how you used to make me laugh sometimes, when we were working together, you and I, the chief and the deputy-chief!</span><span id="kobo.450.5">﻿ ﻿… And the funniest thing is that you thought our worthy </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.450.6">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.451.1"> Lenormand dead﻿ ﻿… as well as poor Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.451.2">But no, no, old chap: </span><span id="kobo.451.3">there’s life in the old dog yet!” </span><span id="kobo.451.4">He pointed to Altenheim’s corpse. </span><span id="kobo.451.5">“There, it was that scoundrel who pitched me into the water, in a sack, with a paving-stone round my waist. </span><span id="kobo.451.6">Only, he forgot to take away my knife. </span><span id="kobo.451.7">And with a knife one rips open sacks and cuts ropes. </span><span id="kobo.451.8">So you see, you unfortunate Altenheim: </span><span id="kobo.451.9">if you had thought of that, you wouldn’t be where you are!</span><span id="kobo.451.10">﻿ ﻿… But enough said.</span><span id="kobo.451.11">﻿ ﻿… Peace to your ashes!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.453.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.454.1"> Weber listened, not knowing what to think. </span><span id="kobo.454.2">At last, he made a gesture of despair, as though he gave up the idea of forming a reasonable opinion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.456.1">“The handcuffs,” he said, suddenly alarmed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.457.1">“If it amuses you,” said Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.458.1">And, picking out Doudeville in the front row of his assailants, he put out his wrists:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">“There, my friend, you shall have the honour﻿ ﻿… and don’t trouble to exert yourself.</span><span id="kobo.459.2">﻿ ﻿… I’m playing square﻿ ﻿… as it’s no use doing anything else.</span><span id="kobo.459.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.460.1">He said this in a tone that gave Doudeville to understand that the struggle was finished for the moment and that there was nothing to do but submit.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.461.1">Doudeville fastened the handcuffs.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.462.1">Without moving his lips or contracting a muscle of his face, Sernine whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.463.1">“27, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.463.2">Rue de Rivoli</span><span id="kobo.464.1">﻿ ﻿… Geneviève.</span><span id="kobo.464.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.466.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.467.1"> Weber could not suppress a movement of satisfaction at the sight:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">“Come along!” </span><span id="kobo.469.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.469.3">“To the detective-office!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.470.1">“That’s it, to the detective-office!” </span><span id="kobo.470.2">cried Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.470.3">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.470.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.471.1"> Lenormand will enter Arsène Lupin in the jail-book; and Arsène Lupin will enter Prince Sernine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.473.1">“You’re too clever, Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.474.1">“That’s true, Weber; we shall never get on, you and I.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.475.1">During the drive in the motorcar, escorted by three other cars filled with policemen, he did not utter a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.476.1">They did not stay long at the detective office. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.476.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.477.1"> Weber, remembering the escapes effected by Lupin, sent him up at once to the fingerprint department and then took him to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.478.1">Dépôt</span><span id="kobo.479.1">, whence he was sent on to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.480.1">Santé</span><span id="kobo.481.1"> Prison.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.483.1">The governor had been warned by telephone and was waiting for him. </span><span id="kobo.483.2">The formalities of the entry of commitment and of the searching were soon got over; and, at seven o’clock in the evening, Prince Paul Sernine crossed the threshold of cell 14 in the second division:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.484.1">“Not half bad, your rooms,” he declared, “not bad at all!</span><span id="kobo.484.2">﻿ ﻿… Electric light, central heating, every requisite﻿ ﻿… capital! </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.484.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.485.1"> Governor, I’ll take this room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.487.1">He flung himself on the bed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.488.1">“Oh, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.488.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.489.1"> Governor, I have one little favor to ask of you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.491.1">“What is that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.492.1">“Tell them not to bring me my chocolate before ten o’clock in the morning.</span><span id="kobo.492.2">﻿ ﻿… I’m awfully sleepy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.493.1">He turned his face to the wall. </span><span id="kobo.493.2">Five minutes later he was sound asleep.</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>