<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XIV: The Man in Black</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-14" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XIV</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Man in Black</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">At that moment, Arsène Lupin felt the impression, the certainty, that he had been drawn into an ambush, by means which he had not the time to perceive, but of which he guessed the prodigious skill and address. </span><span id="kobo.4.2">Everything had been calculated, everything ordained; the dismissal of his men, the disappearance or treachery of the servants, his own presence in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.4.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.5.1"> Kesselbach’s house.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">Clearly, the whole thing had succeeded, exactly as the enemy wished, thanks to circumstances almost miraculously fortunate; for, after all, he might have arrived before the false message had sent his friends away. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">But then there would have been a battle between his own gang and the Altenheim gang. </span><span id="kobo.7.3">And Lupin, remembering Malreich’s conduct, the murder of Altenheim, the poisoning of the mad girl at Veldenz, Lupin asked himself whether the ambush was aimed at him alone or whether Malreich had not contemplated the possibility of a general scuffle, involving the killing of accomplices who had by this time become irksome to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">It was an intuition, rather, a fleeting idea, that just passed through his mind. </span><span id="kobo.8.2">The hour was one for action. </span><span id="kobo.8.3">He must defend Dolores, the abduction of whom was, in all likelihood, the first and foremost reason of the attack.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">He half-opened the casement window on the street and levelled his revolver. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">A shot, rousing and alarming the neighborhood, and the scoundrels would take to their heels.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“Well, no,” he muttered, “no! </span><span id="kobo.10.2">It shall not be said that I shirked the fight. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">The opportunity is too good.</span><span id="kobo.10.4">﻿ ﻿… And, then, who says that they would run away!</span><span id="kobo.10.5">﻿ ﻿… There are too many of them to care about the neighbors.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">He returned to Dolores’ room. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">There was a noise downstairs. </span><span id="kobo.11.3">He listened and, finding that it came from the staircase, he locked the door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">Dolores was crying and throwing herself about the sofa.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">He implored her:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">“Are you strong enough? </span><span id="kobo.14.2">We are on the first floor. </span><span id="kobo.14.3">I could help you down. </span><span id="kobo.14.4">We can lower the sheets from the window.</span><span id="kobo.14.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“No, no, don’t leave me.</span><span id="kobo.15.2">﻿ ﻿… I am frightened.</span><span id="kobo.15.3">﻿ ﻿… I haven’t the strength﻿ ﻿… they will kill me.</span><span id="kobo.15.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, protect me!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">He took her in his arms and carried her to the next room. </span><span id="kobo.16.2">And, bending over her:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“Don’t move; and keep calm. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">I swear to you that not one of those men shall touch you, as long as I am alive.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">The door of the first room was tried. </span><span id="kobo.18.2">Dolores, clinging to him with all her might, cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“Oh, there they are! </span><span id="kobo.19.2">There they are!</span><span id="kobo.19.3">﻿ ﻿… They will kill you﻿ ﻿… you are alone!</span><span id="kobo.19.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">Eagerly, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“No, I am not alone.</span><span id="kobo.21.2">﻿ ﻿… You are here.</span><span id="kobo.21.3">﻿ ﻿… You are here beside me.</span><span id="kobo.21.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">He tried to release himself. </span><span id="kobo.22.2">She took his head in her two hands, looked him deep in the eyes and whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“Where are you going? </span><span id="kobo.23.2">What are you going to do? </span><span id="kobo.23.3">No﻿ ﻿… you must not die.</span><span id="kobo.23.4">﻿ ﻿… I won’t have it﻿ ﻿… you must live﻿ ﻿… you must.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">She stammered words which he did not catch and which she seemed to stifle between her lips lest he should hear them; and, having spent all her energy, exhausted, she fell back unconscious.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">He leant over her and gazed at her for a moment. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">Softly, lightly, he pressed a kiss upon her hair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">Then he went back to the first room, carefully closed the door between the two and switched on the electric light.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“One second, my lads!” </span><span id="kobo.27.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.27.3">“You seem in a great hurry to get yourselves smashed to pieces!</span><span id="kobo.27.4">﻿ ﻿… Don’t you know that Lupin’s here? </span><span id="kobo.27.5">I’ll make you dance!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">While speaking, he unfolded a screen in such a way as to hide the sofa on which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.28.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.29.1"> Kesselbach had been lying; and he now spread dresses and coverings over it. </span><span id="kobo.29.2">The door was on the point of giving way under the blows of the men outside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">“Here I am! </span><span id="kobo.31.2">Coming! </span><span id="kobo.31.3">Are you ready? </span><span id="kobo.31.4">Now, gentlemen, one at a time!</span><span id="kobo.31.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">He briskly turned the key and drew the bolt.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">Shouts, threats, a roar of infuriated animals came through the open doorway.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">Yet none of them dared come forward. </span><span id="kobo.34.2">Before rushing at Lupin, they hesitated, seized with alarm, with fear.</span><span id="kobo.34.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">This was what he had reckoned on.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">Standing in the middle of the room, full in the light, with outstretched arm, he held between his fingers a sheaf of banknotes, which he divided, counting them one by one, into seven equal shares. </span><span id="kobo.36.2">And he calmly said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">“Three thousand francs’ reward for each of you, if Lupin is sent to his last account? </span><span id="kobo.37.2">That’s what you were promised, isn’t it? </span><span id="kobo.37.3">Here’s double the money!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">He laid the bundles on the table, within reach of the scoundrels.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">The Broker roared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Humbug! </span><span id="kobo.40.2">He’s trying to gain time. </span><span id="kobo.40.3">Shoot him down!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">He raised his arm. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">His companions held him back.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">And Lupin continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“Of course, this need not affect your plan of campaign. </span><span id="kobo.43.2">You came here, first, to kidnap </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.43.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.44.1"> Kesselbach and, secondly, to lay hands on her jewels. </span><span id="kobo.44.2">Far be it from me to interfere with your laudable intentions!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“Look here, what are you driving at?” </span><span id="kobo.46.2">growled the Broker, listening in spite of himself.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“Aha, Broker, I’m beginning to interest you, am I?</span><span id="kobo.47.2">﻿ ﻿… Come in, old chap.</span><span id="kobo.47.3">﻿ ﻿… Come in, all of you.</span><span id="kobo.47.4">﻿ ﻿… There’s a draught at the top of those stairs﻿ ﻿… and such pretty fellows as you mustn’t run the risk of catching cold.</span><span id="kobo.47.5">﻿ ﻿… What, are we afraid? </span><span id="kobo.47.6">Why, I’m all by myself!</span><span id="kobo.47.7">﻿ ﻿… Come, pull yourselves together, my lambs!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">They entered the room, puzzled and suspicious.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“Shut the door, Broker﻿ ﻿… we shall be more comfortable. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">Thanks, old man. </span><span id="kobo.49.3">Oh, by the way, I see the notes are gone. </span><span id="kobo.49.4">Therefore we’re agreed. </span><span id="kobo.49.5">How easy it is for honest men to come to terms!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“Well﻿ ﻿… and next?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Next? </span><span id="kobo.51.2">Well, as we’re partners﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“Partners?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“Why, haven’t you accepted my money? </span><span id="kobo.53.2">We’re working together, old man, and we will carry off the young woman together first and carry off the jewels after.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">The Broker grinned:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“Don’t want you for that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“Yes, you do, old man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“Because you don’t know where the jewels are hidden and I do.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“We’ll find out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“Tomorrow. </span><span id="kobo.60.2">Not tonight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Well, let’s hear. </span><span id="kobo.61.2">What do you want?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“My share of the jewels.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“Why didn’t you take the lot, as you know where they are?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“Can’t get at them by myself. </span><span id="kobo.64.2">There’s a way of doing it, but I don’t know it. </span><span id="kobo.64.3">You’re here, so I’m making use of you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">The Broker hesitated:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“Share the jewels.</span><span id="kobo.66.2">﻿ ﻿… Share the jewels.</span><span id="kobo.66.3">﻿ ﻿… A few bits of glass and brass, most likely.</span><span id="kobo.66.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“You fool!</span><span id="kobo.67.2">﻿ ﻿… There’s more than a million’s worth.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">The men quivered under the impression made upon them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“Very well,” said the Broker. </span><span id="kobo.69.2">“But suppose the Kesselbach gets away? </span><span id="kobo.69.3">She’s in the next room, isn’t she?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“No, she’s in here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">Lupin for a moment pulled back one of the leaves of the screen, revealing the heap of dresses and bedclothes which he had laid out on the sofa:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“She’s here, fainting. </span><span id="kobo.72.2">But I shan’t give her up till we’ve divided.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“Still﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“You can take it or leave it. </span><span id="kobo.74.2">I don’t care if I am alone. </span><span id="kobo.74.3">You know what I’m good for. </span><span id="kobo.74.4">So please yourselves.</span><span id="kobo.74.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">The men consulted with one another and the Broker said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“Where is the hiding-place you’re talking of?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“Under the fireplace. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">But, when you don’t know the secret, you must first lift up the whole chimneypiece, looking-glass, marble and all in a lump, it seems. </span><span id="kobo.77.3">It’s no easy job.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“Pooh, we’re a smart lot, we are! </span><span id="kobo.78.2">Just you wait and see. </span><span id="kobo.78.3">In five minutes﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">He gave his orders and his pals at once set to work with admirable vigor and discipline. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">Two of them, standing on chairs, tried to lift the mirror. </span><span id="kobo.79.3">The four others attacked the fireplace itself. </span><span id="kobo.79.4">The Broker, on his knees, kept his eyes on the hearth and gave the word of command:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“Cheerily, lads!</span><span id="kobo.80.2">﻿ ﻿… Altogether, if you please!</span><span id="kobo.80.3">﻿ ﻿… Look out!</span><span id="kobo.80.4">﻿ ﻿… One, two﻿ ﻿… ah, there, it’s moving!</span><span id="kobo.80.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">Standing behind them, with his hands in his pockets, Lupin watched them affectionately and, at the same time, revelled with all his pride, as an artist and master, in this striking proof of his authority, of his might, of the incredible sway which he wielded over others. </span><span id="kobo.81.2">How could those scoundrels for a second accept that improbable story and lose all sense of things, to the point of relinquishing every chance of the fight in his favor?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">He took from his pockets two great massive and formidable revolvers and, calmly, choosing the first two men whom he would bring down and the two who would fall next, he aimed as he might have aimed at a pair of targets in a rifle-gallery.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">Two shots together and two more.</span><span id="kobo.83.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">Loud yells of pain.</span><span id="kobo.84.2">﻿ ﻿… Four men came tumbling down, one after the other, like dolls at a cockshy.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“Four from seven leaves three,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">“Shall I go on?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">His arms remained outstretched, levelled at the Broker and his two pals.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“You swine!” </span><span id="kobo.87.2">growled the Broker, feeling for a weapon.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“Hands up,” cried Lupin, “or I fire!</span><span id="kobo.88.2">﻿ ﻿… That’s it.</span><span id="kobo.88.3">﻿ ﻿… Now, you two, take away his toys.</span><span id="kobo.88.4">﻿ ﻿… If not﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">The two scoundrels, shaking with fear, caught hold of their leader and compelled him to submit.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">“Bind him!</span><span id="kobo.90.2">﻿ ﻿… Bind him, confound it!</span><span id="kobo.90.3">﻿ ﻿… What difference does it make to you?</span><span id="kobo.90.4">﻿ ﻿… Once I’m gone, you’re all free.</span><span id="kobo.90.5">﻿ ﻿… Come along, have you finished? </span><span id="kobo.90.6">The wrists first﻿ ﻿… with your belts.</span><span id="kobo.90.7">﻿ ﻿… And the ankles.</span><span id="kobo.90.8">﻿ ﻿… Hurry up!</span><span id="kobo.90.9">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">The Broker, beaten and disabled, made no further resistance. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">While his pals were binding him, Lupin stooped over them and dealt them two terrific blows on the head with the butt-end of his revolver. </span><span id="kobo.91.3">They sank down in a heap.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“That’s a good piece of work,” he said, taking breath. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">“Pity there are not another fifty of them. </span><span id="kobo.92.3">I was just in the mood.</span><span id="kobo.92.4">﻿ ﻿… And all so easily done﻿ ﻿… with a smile on one’s face.</span><span id="kobo.92.5">﻿ ﻿… What do you think of it, Broker?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">The scoundrel lay cursing. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">Lupin said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“Cheer up, old man! </span><span id="kobo.94.2">Console yourself with the thought that you are helping in a good action, the rescue of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.94.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.95.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.95.2">She will thank you in person for your gallantry.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">He went to the door of the second room and opened it:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“What’s this?” </span><span id="kobo.98.2">he said, stopping on the threshold, taken aback, dumbfounded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">The room was empty.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">He went to the window, saw a ladder leaning against the balcony, a telescopic steel ladder, and muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Kidnapped﻿ ﻿… kidnapped﻿ ﻿… Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.101.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, the villain!</span><span id="kobo.101.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.103.1">He reflected for a minute, trying to master his anguish of mind, and said to himself that, after all, as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.103.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.104.1"> Kesselbach seemed to be in no immediate danger, there was no cause for alarm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">But he was seized with a sudden fit of rage and flew at the seven scoundrels, gave a kick or two to those of the wounded who stirred, felt for his banknotes and put them back in his pocket, then gagged the men’s mouths and tied their hands with anything that he could find﻿—blind-cords, curtain-loops, blankets and sheets reduced to strips﻿—and, lastly, laid in a row on the carpet, in front of the sofa, seven bundles of humanity, packed tight together and tied up like so many parcels:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“Mummies on toast!” </span><span id="kobo.107.2">he chuckled. </span><span id="kobo.107.3">“A dainty dish for those who like that sort of thing!</span><span id="kobo.107.4">﻿ ﻿… You pack of fools, how does this suit you, eh? </span><span id="kobo.107.5">There you are, like corpses at the Morgue.</span><span id="kobo.107.6">﻿ ﻿… Serves you right for attacking Lupin, Lupin the protector of the widow and orphan!</span><span id="kobo.107.7">﻿ ﻿… Are you trembling? </span><span id="kobo.107.8">Quite unnecessary, my lambs! </span><span id="kobo.107.9">Lupin never hurt a fly yet!</span><span id="kobo.107.10">﻿ ﻿… Only, Lupin is a decent man, he can’t stand vermin; and the Lupin knows his duty. </span><span id="kobo.107.11">I ask you, is life possible with a lot of scamps like you about? </span><span id="kobo.107.12">Think of it: </span><span id="kobo.107.13">no respect for other people’s lives; no respect for property, for laws, for society; no conscience; no anything! </span><span id="kobo.107.14">What are we coming to? </span><span id="kobo.107.15">Lord, what are we coming to?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">Without even taking the trouble to lock them in, he left the room, went down the street and walked until he came to his taxi. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">He sent the driver in search of another and brought both cabs back to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.108.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.109.1"> Kesselbach’s house.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">A good tip, paid in advance, avoided all tedious explanations. </span><span id="kobo.111.2">With the help of the two men, he carried the seven prisoners down and plumped them anyhow, on one another’s knees, into the cabs. </span><span id="kobo.111.3">The wounded men yelled and moaned. </span><span id="kobo.111.4">He shut the doors, shouting:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Mind your hands!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">He got up beside the driver of the front cab.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Where to?” </span><span id="kobo.114.2">asked the man.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“36, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.115.2">Quai des Orfevers</span><span id="kobo.116.1">: </span><span id="kobo.116.2">the detective-office.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">The motors throbbed, the drivers started the gear and the strange procession went scooting down the slopes of the Trocadero.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">In the streets, they passed a few vegetable-carts. </span><span id="kobo.119.2">Men carrying long poles were turning out the street-lamps.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">There were stars in the sky. </span><span id="kobo.120.2">A cool breeze was wafted through the air.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">Lupin sang aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">The </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.122.2">Place de la Concorde</span><span id="kobo.123.1">, the Louvre.</span><span id="kobo.123.2">﻿ ﻿… In the distance, the dark bulk of Notre Dame.</span><span id="kobo.123.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">He turned round and half opened the door:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“Having a good time, mates? </span><span id="kobo.126.2">So am I, thank you. </span><span id="kobo.126.3">It’s a grand night for a drive and the air’s delicious!</span><span id="kobo.126.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">They were now bumping over the ill-paved quays. </span><span id="kobo.127.2">And soon they arrived at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.127.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.128.1"> and the door of the detective-office.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“Wait here,” said Lupin to the two drivers, “and be sure you look after your seven fares.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">He crossed the outer yard and went down the passage on the right leading to the rooms of the central office. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">He found the night inspectors on duty.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“A bag, gentlemen,” he said, as he entered, “a fine bag too. </span><span id="kobo.132.2">Is </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.132.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.133.1"> Weber here? </span><span id="kobo.133.2">I am the new commissary of police for Auteuil.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.135.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.136.1"> Weber is in his flat. </span><span id="kobo.136.2">Do you want him sent for?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“Just one second. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">I’m in a hurry. </span><span id="kobo.138.3">I’ll leave a line for him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">He sat down at a table and wrote:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9" epub:type="z3998:salutation"><span id="kobo.140.1">“My dear </span><span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:recipient" id="kobo.140.2">Weber</span><span id="kobo.141.1">,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre19"><span id="kobo.143.1">“I am bringing you the seven scoundrels composing Altenheim’s gang, the men who killed Gourel (and plenty of others) and who killed me as well, under the name of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.143.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.144.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“That only leaves their leader unaccounted for. </span><span id="kobo.146.2">I am going to effect his arrest this minute. </span><span id="kobo.146.3">Come and join me. </span><span id="kobo.146.4">He lives in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.146.5">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.147.1">, at Neuilly and goes by the name of Leon Massier.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<div epub:type="z3998:valediction" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Kind regards.</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Yours,</span></p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="z3998:sender" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature"><span id="kobo.152.1">“Arsène Lupin,</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“Chief of the Detective-service.”</span></p>
					</div>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">He sealed the letter:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“Give that to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.158.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.159.1"> Weber. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">It’s urgent. </span><span id="kobo.159.3">Now I want seven men to receive the goods. </span><span id="kobo.159.4">I left them on the quay.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">On going back to the taxis, he was met by a chief inspector:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“Ah, it’s you </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.162.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.163.1"> Lebœuf!” </span><span id="kobo.163.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.163.3">“I’ve made a fine haul.</span><span id="kobo.163.4">﻿ ﻿… The whole of Altenheim’s gang.</span><span id="kobo.163.5">﻿ ﻿… They’re there in the taxicabs.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Where did you find them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“Hard at work kidnapping </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.166.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.167.1"> Kesselbach and robbing her house. </span><span id="kobo.167.2">But I’ll tell you all about it when the time comes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">The chief inspector took him aside and, with the air of surprise:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“I beg your pardon, monsieur, but I was sent for to see the commissary of police for Auteuil. </span><span id="kobo.170.2">And I don’t seem to﻿ ﻿… Whom have I the honor of addressing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Somebody who is making you a handsome present of seven hooligans of the finest quality.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Still, I should like to know.</span><span id="kobo.172.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“My name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">He nimbly tripped the chief inspector up, ran to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.176.2">Rue de Rivoli</span><span id="kobo.177.1">, jumped into a passing taxicab and drove to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.178.1">Porte des Ternes</span><span id="kobo.179.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">The </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.181.2">Route de la Revolte</span><span id="kobo.182.1"> was close by. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">He went to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.183.1">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.184.1"> 3.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.187.1">For all his coolness and self-command, Arsène Lupin was unable to control his excitement. </span><span id="kobo.187.2">Would he find Dolores Kesselbach? </span><span id="kobo.187.3">Had Louis de Malreich taken her either to his own place or to the Broker’s shed?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">Lupin had taken the key of the shed from the Broker, so that it was easy for him, after ringing and walking across the different yards, to open the door and enter the lumber-shop.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">He switched on his lantern and took his bearings. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">A little to the right was the free space in which he had seen the accomplices hold their last confabulation. </span><span id="kobo.189.3">On the sofa mentioned by the Broker he saw a black figure, Dolores lay wrapped in blankets and gagged.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">He helped her up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Ah, it’s you, it’s you!” </span><span id="kobo.191.2">she stammered. </span><span id="kobo.191.3">“They haven’t touched you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">And, rising and pointing to the back of the shop:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“There﻿ ﻿… he went out that side﻿ ﻿… I heard him.</span><span id="kobo.193.2">﻿ ﻿… I am sure.</span><span id="kobo.193.3">﻿ ﻿… You must go﻿ ﻿… please!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“I must get you away first,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“No, never mind me﻿ ﻿… go after him.</span><span id="kobo.195.2">﻿ ﻿… I entreat you.</span><span id="kobo.195.3">﻿ ﻿… Strike him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">Fear, this time, instead of dejecting her, seemed to be giving her unwonted strength; and she repeated, with an immense longing to place her terrible enemy in his power:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Go after him first.</span><span id="kobo.197.2">﻿ ﻿… I can’t go on living like this.</span><span id="kobo.197.3">﻿ ﻿… You must save me from him.</span><span id="kobo.197.4">﻿ ﻿… I can’t go on living.</span><span id="kobo.197.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">He unfastened her bonds, laid her carefully on the sofa and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“You are right.</span><span id="kobo.199.2">﻿ ﻿… Besides, you have nothing to fear here.</span><span id="kobo.199.3">﻿ ﻿… Wait for me, I shall come back.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">As he was going away, she caught hold of his hand:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">“But you yourself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“If that man﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">It was as though she dreaded for Lupin the great, final contest to which she was exposing him and as though, at the last moment, she would have been glad to hold him back.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">He said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“Thank you, have no fear. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">What have I to be afraid of? </span><span id="kobo.206.3">He is alone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">And, leaving her, he went to the back of the shed. </span><span id="kobo.207.2">As he expected, he found a ladder standing against the wall which brought him to the level of the little window through which he had watched the scoundrels hold their meeting. </span><span id="kobo.207.3">It was the way by which Malreich had returned to his house in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.207.4">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.208.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">He, therefore, took the same road, just as he had done a few hours earlier, climbed into the loft of the other coach-house and down into the garden. </span><span id="kobo.210.2">He found himself at the back of the villa occupied by Malreich.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">Strange to say, he did not doubt, for a moment that Malreich was there. </span><span id="kobo.211.2">He would meet him inevitably; the formidable battle which they were waging against each other was nearing its end. </span><span id="kobo.211.3">A few minutes more and, one way or another, all would be over.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">He was amazed, on grasping the handle of a door, to find that the handle turned and the door opened under his pressure. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">The villa was not even locked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">He passed through a kitchen, a hall and up a staircase; and he walked deliberately, without seeking to deaden the sound of his footsteps.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">On the landing, he stopped. </span><span id="kobo.214.2">The perspiration streamed from his forehead; and his temples throbbed under the rush of his blood. </span><span id="kobo.214.3">Nevertheless, he remained calm, master of himself and conscious of his least thoughts. </span><span id="kobo.214.4">He laid two revolvers on a stair:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“No weapons,” he said to himself. </span><span id="kobo.215.2">“My hands only, just the effort of my two hands.</span><span id="kobo.215.3">﻿ ﻿… That’s quite enough.</span><span id="kobo.215.4">﻿ ﻿… That will be better.</span><span id="kobo.215.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">Opposite him were three doors. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">He chose the middle one, turned the handle and encountered no obstacle. </span><span id="kobo.216.3">He went in. </span><span id="kobo.216.4">There was no light in the room, but the rays of the night entered through the wide-open window and, amid the darkness, he saw the sheets and the white curtains of the bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">And somebody was standing beside it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">He savagely cast the gleam of his lantern upon that form.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">Malreich!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">The pallid face of Malreich, his dim eyes, his cadaverous cheekbones, his scraggy neck.</span><span id="kobo.220.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">And all this stood motionless, opposite him, at five steps’ distance; and he could not have said whether that dull face, that death-face, expressed the least terror or even a grain of anxiety.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">Lupin took a step forward﻿ ﻿… and a second﻿ ﻿… and a third.</span><span id="kobo.222.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">The man did not move.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">Did he see? </span><span id="kobo.224.2">Did he understand? </span><span id="kobo.224.3">It was as though the man’s eyes were gazing into space and that he thought himself possessed by an hallucination, rather than looking upon a real image.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">One more step.</span><span id="kobo.225.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“He will defend himself,” thought Lupin, “he is bound to defend himself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">And Lupin thrust out his arms.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">The man did not make a movement. </span><span id="kobo.228.2">He did not retreat; his eyelids did not blink.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">The contact took place.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">And it was Lupin, scared and bewildered, who lost his head. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">He knocked the man back upon his bed, stretched him at full length, rolled him in the sheets, bound him in the blankets and held him under his knee, like a prey﻿ ﻿… whereas the man had not made the slightest movement of resistance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Ah!” </span><span id="kobo.231.2">shouted Lupin, drunk with delight and satisfied hatred. </span><span id="kobo.231.3">“At last I have crushed you, you odious brute! </span><span id="kobo.231.4">At last I am the master!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">He heard a noise outside, in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.232.2">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.233.1">; men knocking at the gate. </span><span id="kobo.233.2">He ran to the window and cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“Is that you, Weber? </span><span id="kobo.235.2">Already? </span><span id="kobo.235.3">Well done! </span><span id="kobo.235.4">You are a model servant! </span><span id="kobo.235.5">Break down the gate, old chap, and come up here; delighted to see you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">In a few minutes, he searched his prisoner’s clothes, got hold of his pocketbook, cleared the papers out of the drawers of the desk and the davenport, flung them on the table and went through them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">He gave a shout of joy: </span><span id="kobo.237.2">the bundle of letters was there, the famous bundle of letters which he had promised to restore to the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">He put back the papers in their place and went to the window:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“It’s all finished, Weber! </span><span id="kobo.239.2">You can come in! </span><span id="kobo.239.3">You will find </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.239.4">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.240.1"> Kesselbach’s murderer in his bed, all ready tied up.</span><span id="kobo.240.2">﻿ ﻿… Goodbye, Weber!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">And Lupin, tearing down the stairs, ran to the coach-house and went back to Dolores Kesselbach, while Weber was breaking into the villa.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">Single-handed, he had arrested Altenheim’s seven companions!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">And he had delivered to justice the mysterious leader of the gang, the infamous monster, Louis de Malreich!</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.246.1">A young man sat writing at a table on a wide wooden balcony.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">From time to time, he raised his head and cast a vague glance toward the horizon of hills, where the trees, stripped by the autumn, were shedding their last leaves over the red roofs of the villas and the lawns of the gardens. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">Then he went on writing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">Presently he took up his paper and read aloud:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" lang="fr" epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="fr">
				<p class="first-child2">
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.249.1">Nos jours s’en vont à la dérive,</span>
					<br class="calibre22"/>
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.251.1">Comme emportés par un courant</span>
					<br class="calibre22"/>
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.253.1">Qui les pousse vers une rive</span>
					<br class="calibre22"/>
					<span class="kobo-verse-span"><span id="kobo.255.1">Où l’on n’aborde qu’en mourant.</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.255.2">10</span></a></span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“Not so bad,” said a voice behind him. </span><span id="kobo.259.2">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.259.3">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.260.1"> Amable Tastu might have written that, or </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.261.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.262.1"> Felicia Hemans. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">However, we can’t all be Byrons or Lamartines!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“You!</span><span id="kobo.264.2">﻿ ﻿… You!</span><span id="kobo.264.3">﻿ ﻿…” stammered the young man, in dismay.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“Yes, I, poet, I myself, Arsène Lupin come to see his dear friend Pierre Leduc.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">Pierre Leduc began to shake, as though shivering with fever. </span><span id="kobo.266.2">He asked, in a low voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“Has the hour come?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“Yes, my dear Pierre Leduc: </span><span id="kobo.268.2">the hour has come for you to give up, or rather to interrupt the slack poet’s life which you have been leading for months at the feet of Geneviève Ernemont and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.268.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.269.1"> Kesselbach and to perform the part which I have allotted to you in my play﻿ ﻿… oh, a fine play, I assure you, thoroughly well-constructed, according to all the canons of art, with top notes, comic relief and gnashing of teeth galore! </span><span id="kobo.269.2">We have reached the fifth act; the grand finale is at hand; and you, Pierre Leduc, are the hero. </span><span id="kobo.269.3">There’s fame for you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">The young man rose from his seat:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“And suppose I refuse?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“Idiot!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“Yes, suppose I refuse? </span><span id="kobo.274.2">After all, what obliges me to submit to your will? </span><span id="kobo.274.3">What obliges me to accept a part which I do not know, but which I loathe in advance and feel ashamed of?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“Idiot!” </span><span id="kobo.275.2">repeated Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">And forcing Pierre Leduc back into his chair, he sat down beside him and, in the gentlest of voices:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“You quite forget, my dear young man, that you are not Pierre Leduc, but Gérard Baupré. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">That you bear the beautiful name of Pierre Leduc is due to the fact that you, Gérard Baupré, killed Pierre Leduc and robbed him of his individuality.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">The young man bounded with indignation:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">“You are mad! </span><span id="kobo.279.2">You know as well as I do that you conceived the whole plot.</span><span id="kobo.279.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“Yes, I know that, of course; but the law doesn’t know it; and what will the law say when I come forward with proof that the real Pierre Leduc died a violent death and that you have taken his place?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">The young man, overwhelmed with consternation, stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“No one will believe you.</span><span id="kobo.282.2">﻿ ﻿… Why should I have done that? </span><span id="kobo.282.3">With what object?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“Idiot! </span><span id="kobo.283.2">The object is so self-evident that Weber himself could have perceived it. </span><span id="kobo.283.3">You lie when you say that you will not accept a part which you do not know. </span><span id="kobo.283.4">You know your part quite well. </span><span id="kobo.283.5">It is the part which Pierre Leduc would have played were he not dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“But Pierre Leduc, to me, to everybody, was only a name. </span><span id="kobo.284.2">Who was he? </span><span id="kobo.284.3">Who am I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“What difference can that make to you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“I want to know. </span><span id="kobo.286.2">I want to know what I am doing!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“And, if you know, will you go straight ahead?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“Yes, if the object of which you speak is worth it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">“If it were not, do you think I would take all this trouble?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Who am I? </span><span id="kobo.290.2">Whatever my destiny, you may be sure that I shall prove worthy of it. </span><span id="kobo.290.3">But I want to know. </span><span id="kobo.290.4">Who am I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">Arsène Lupin took off his hat, bowed and said: </span><span id="kobo.291.2">“Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.291.3">IV</span><span id="kobo.292.1">, Grand-duke of Zweibrucken-Veldenz, Prince of Berncastel, Elector of Treves and lord of all sorts of places.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.295.1">Three days later, Arsène Lupin took </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.295.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.296.1"> Kesselbach away in a motorcar in the direction of the frontier. </span><span id="kobo.296.2">The journey was accomplished in silence, Lupin remembered with emotion Dolores’s terrified conduct and the words which she spoke in the house in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.297.1">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.298.1">, when he was about to defend her against Altenheim’s accomplices. </span><span id="kobo.298.2">And she must have remembered also, for she remained embarrassed and evidently perturbed in his presence.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">In the evening they reached a small castle, all covered with creepers and flowers, roofed with an enormous slate cap and standing in a large garden full of ancestral trees.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">Here </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.301.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.302.1"> Kesselbach found Geneviève already installed, after a visit to the neighboring town, where she had engaged a staff of servants from among the country-people.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“This will be your residence, madame,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">“You are at Bruggen Castle. </span><span id="kobo.304.3">You will be quite safe here, while waiting the outcome of these events. </span><span id="kobo.304.4">I have written to Pierre Leduc and he will be your guest from tomorrow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">He started off again at once, drove to Veldenz and handed over to Count von Waldemar the famous letters which he had recaptured:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“You know my conditions, my dear Waldemar,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.306.2">“The first and most important thing is to restore the House of Zweibrucken-Veldenz and to reinstate the Grand-duke Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.306.3">IV</span><span id="kobo.307.1">, in the grand-duchy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“I shall open negotiations with the Council of Regency today. </span><span id="kobo.309.2">According to my information, it will not be a difficult matter. </span><span id="kobo.309.3">But this Grand-duke Hermann.</span><span id="kobo.309.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“His Royal Highness is at present staying at Bruggen Castle, under the name of Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.310.2">I will supply all the necessary proofs of his identity.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">That same evening, Lupin took the road back to Paris, with the intention of actively hurrying on the trial of Malreich and the seven scoundrels.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.313.1">It would be wearisome to recapitulate the story of the case: </span><span id="kobo.313.2">the facts, down to the smallest details, are in the memory of one and all. </span><span id="kobo.313.3">It was one of those sensational events which still form a subject of conversation and discussion among the weather-beaten laborers in the remotest villages.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">But what I wish to recall is the enormous part played by Lupin in the conduct of the case and in the incidents appertaining to the preliminary inquiry. </span><span id="kobo.314.2">As a matter of fact, it was he who managed the inquiry. </span><span id="kobo.314.3">From the very start, he took the place of the authorities, ordering police-searches, directing the measures to be taken, prescribing the questions to be put to the prisoners, assuming the responsibility for everything.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">We can all remember the universal amazement when, morning after morning, we read in the papers those letters, so irresistible in their masterly logic, signed, by turns:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“</span><span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:signature" id="kobo.316.2">Arsène Lupin</span><span id="kobo.317.1">, Examining-magistrate.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“</span><span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:signature" id="kobo.319.2">Arsène Lupin</span><span id="kobo.320.1">, Public Prosecutor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“</span><span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:signature" id="kobo.322.2">Arsène Lupin</span><span id="kobo.323.1">, Minister of Justice.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“</span><span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:signature" id="kobo.325.2">Arsène Lupin</span><span id="kobo.326.1">, Copper.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">He flung himself into the business with a spirit, an ardor, a violence, even, that was astonishing in one usually so full of lighthearted chaff and, when all was said, so naturally disposed by temperament to display a certain professional indulgence.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">No, this time he was prompted by hatred.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">He hated Louis de Malreich, that bloodthirsty scoundrel, that foul brute, of whom he had always been afraid and who, even beaten, even in prison, still gave him that sensation of dread and repugnance which one feels at the sight of a reptile.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">Besides, had not Malreich had the audacity to persecute Dolores?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“He has played and lost,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.332.2">“He shall pay for it with his head.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">That was what he wanted for his terrible enemy: </span><span id="kobo.333.2">the scaffold, the bleak, dull morning when the blade of the guillotine slides down and kills.</span><span id="kobo.333.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">It was a strange prisoner whom the examining-magistrate questioned for months on end between the four walls of his room, a strange figure, that bony man, with the skeleton face and the lifeless eyes!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">He seemed quite out of himself. </span><span id="kobo.335.2">His thoughts were not there, but elsewhere. </span><span id="kobo.335.3">And he cared so little about answering!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“My name is Leon Massier.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">That was the one sentence to which he confined himself.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">And Lupin retorted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“You lie. </span><span id="kobo.339.2">Leon Massier, born at Perigueux, left fatherless at the age of ten, died seven years ago. </span><span id="kobo.339.3">You took his papers. </span><span id="kobo.339.4">But you forgot his death-certificate. </span><span id="kobo.339.5">Here it is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">And Lupin sent a copy of the document to the public prosecutor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“I am Leon Massier,” declared the prisoner, once again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“You lie,” replied Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.342.2">“You are Louis de Malreich, the last surviving descendant of a small French noble who settled in Germany in the eighteenth century. </span><span id="kobo.342.3">You had a brother who called himself Parbury, Ribeira and Altenheim, by turns: </span><span id="kobo.342.4">you killed your brother. </span><span id="kobo.342.5">You had a sister, Isilda de Malreich: </span><span id="kobo.342.6">you killed your sister.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">“I am Leon Massier.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">“You lie. </span><span id="kobo.344.2">You are Malreich. </span><span id="kobo.344.3">Here is your birth-certificate. </span><span id="kobo.344.4">Here are your brother’s and your sister’s.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">And Lupin sent the three certificates.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">Apart from the question of his identity, Malreich, crushed, no doubt, by the accumulation of proofs brought up against him, did not defend himself. </span><span id="kobo.346.2">What could he say? </span><span id="kobo.346.3">They had forty notes written in his own hand﻿—a comparison of the handwritings established the fact﻿—written in his own hand to the gang of his accomplices, forty notes which he had omitted to tear up after taking them back. </span><span id="kobo.346.4">And all these notes were orders relating to the Kesselbach case, the capture of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.346.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.347.1"> Lenormand and Gourel, the pursuit of old Steinweg, the construction of the underground passages at Garches and so on. </span><span id="kobo.347.2">What possibility was there of a denial?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">One rather odd thing baffled the law officers. </span><span id="kobo.349.2">The seven scoundrels, when confronted with their leader, all declared that they did not know him, because they had never seen him. </span><span id="kobo.349.3">They received his instructions either by telephone, or else in the dark, by means of those same little notes which Malreich slipped into their hands without a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">But, for the rest, was not the existence of the communication between the villa in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.350.2">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.351.1"> and the Broker’s shed an ample proof of complicity? </span><span id="kobo.351.2">From that spot, Malreich saw and heard. </span><span id="kobo.351.3">From that spot, the leader watched his men.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">Discrepancies? </span><span id="kobo.353.2">Apparently irreconcilable facts? </span><span id="kobo.353.3">Lupin explained them all away. </span><span id="kobo.353.4">In a celebrated article, published on the morning of the trial, he took up the case from the start, revealed what lay beneath it, unravelled its web, showed Malreich, unknown to all, living in the room of his brother, the sham Major Parbury, passing unseen along the passages of the Palace Hotel and murdering </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.353.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.354.1"> Kesselbach, murdering Beudot the floor-waiter, murdering Chapman the secretary.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">The trial lingers in the memory. </span><span id="kobo.356.2">It was both terrifying and gloomy: </span><span id="kobo.356.3">terrifying because of the atmosphere of anguish that hung over the crowd of onlookers and the recollection of crime and blood that obsessed their minds: </span><span id="kobo.356.4">gloomy, heavy, darksome, stifling because of the tremendous silence observed by the prisoner.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">Not a protest, not a movement, not a word. </span><span id="kobo.357.2">A face of wax that neither saw nor heard. </span><span id="kobo.357.3">An awful vision of impassive calmness! </span><span id="kobo.357.4">The people in court shuddered. </span><span id="kobo.357.5">Their distraught imaginations conjured up a sort of supernatural being rather than a man, a sort of genie out of the Arabian Nights, one of those Hindu gods who symbolize all that is ferocious, cruel, sanguinary and pernicious.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">As for the other scoundrels, the people did not even look at them, treated them as insignificant supers overshadowed by that stupendous leader.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">The most sensational evidence was that given by </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.359.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.360.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">To the general astonishment and to Lupin’s own surprise, Dolores, who had answered none of the magistrate’s summonses and who had retired to an unknown spot, Dolores appeared, a sorrow-stricken widow, to give damning evidence against her husband’s murderer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">She gazed at him for many seconds and then said, simply:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“That is the man who entered my house in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.363.2">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.364.1">, who carried me off and who locked me up in the Broker’s shed. </span><span id="kobo.364.2">I recognize him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“On your oath?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">“I swear it before God and man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">Two days later, Louis de Malreich, alias Leon Massier was sentenced to death. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">And his overpowering personality may be said to have absorbed that of his accomplices to such an extent that they received the benefit of extenuating circumstances.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“Louis de Malreich have you nothing to say?” </span><span id="kobo.369.2">asked the presiding judge.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">He made no reply.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">One question alone remained undecided in Lupin’s eyes: </span><span id="kobo.371.2">why had Malreich committed all those crimes? </span><span id="kobo.371.3">What did he want? </span><span id="kobo.371.4">What was his object?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">Lupin was soon to understand; and the day was not far off when, gasping with horror, struck, mortally smitten with despair, he would know the awful truth.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.374.1">For the moment, although the thought of it constantly hovered over his mind, he ceased to occupy himself with the Malreich case. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">Resolved to get a new skin, as he put it; reassured, on the other hand, as to the fate of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.374.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.375.1"> Kesselbach and Geneviève, over whose peaceful existence he watched from afar; and, lastly, kept informed by Jean Doudeville, whom he had sent to Veldenz, of all the negotiations that were being pursued between the court of Berlin and the regent of Zweibrucken-Veldenz, he employed all his time in winding up the past and preparing for the future.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">The thought of the different life which he wished to lead under the eyes of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.377.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.378.1"> Kesselbach filled him with new ambitions and unexpected sentiments, in which the image of Dolores played a part, without his being able to tell exactly how or why.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">In a few weeks, he got rid of all the proofs that could have compromised him sooner or later, all the traces that could have led to his ruin. </span><span id="kobo.380.2">He gave each of his old companions a sum of money sufficient to keep them from want for the rest of their lives and said goodbye to them, saying that he was going to South America.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">One morning, after a night of careful thought and a deep study of the situation, he cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“It’s done. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">There’s nothing to fear now. </span><span id="kobo.382.3">The old Lupin is dead. </span><span id="kobo.382.4">Make way for the young one.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">His man brought him a telegram from Germany. </span><span id="kobo.383.2">It contained the news for which he had been waiting. </span><span id="kobo.383.3">The Council of Regency, greatly influenced by the Court of Berlin, had referred the question to the electors; and the electors, greatly influenced by the Council of Regency, had declared their unshaken attachment to the old dynasty of the Veldenz. </span><span id="kobo.383.4">Count von Waldemar was deputed, together with three delegates selected from the nobility, the army and the law, to go to Bruggen Castle, carefully to establish the identity of the Grand-duke Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.383.5">IV</span><span id="kobo.384.1"> and to make all the arrangements with His Royal Highness for his triumphal entry into the principality of his fathers, which was to take place in the course of the following month.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">“This time, I’ve pulled it off,” said Lupin to himself. </span><span id="kobo.386.2">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.386.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.387.1"> Kesselbach’s great scheme is being realized. </span><span id="kobo.387.2">All that remains for me to do is to make Waldemar swallow Pierre Leduc; and that is child’s play. </span><span id="kobo.387.3">The banns between Geneviève and Pierre shall be published tomorrow. </span><span id="kobo.387.4">And it shall be the grand-duke’s affianced bride that will be presented to Waldemar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">Full of glee, he started in his motor for Bruggen Castle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">He sang in the car, he whistled, he chatted to his chauffeur:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Octave, do you know whom you have the honor of driving? </span><span id="kobo.391.2">The master of the world!</span><span id="kobo.391.3">﻿ ﻿… Yes, old man, that staggers you, eh? </span><span id="kobo.391.4">Just so, but it’s the truth. </span><span id="kobo.391.5">I am the master of the world.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">He rubbed his hands and went on soliloquizing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">“All the same, it was a long job. </span><span id="kobo.393.2">It’s a year since the fight began. </span><span id="kobo.393.3">True, it was the most formidable fight I ever stood to win or lose.</span><span id="kobo.393.4">﻿ ﻿… By Jupiter, what a war of giants!” </span><span id="kobo.393.5">And he repeated, “But this time, I’ve pulled it off! </span><span id="kobo.393.6">The enemies are in the water. </span><span id="kobo.393.7">There are no obstacles left between the goal and me. </span><span id="kobo.393.8">The site is free: </span><span id="kobo.393.9">let us build upon it! </span><span id="kobo.393.10">I have the materials at hand, I have the workmen: </span><span id="kobo.393.11">let us build, Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.393.12">And let the palace be worthy of you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">He stopped the car at a few hundred yards from the castle, so that his arrival might create as little fuss as possible, and said to Octave:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">“Wait here for twenty minutes, until four o’clock, and then drive in. </span><span id="kobo.395.2">Take my bags to the little chalet at the end of the park. </span><span id="kobo.395.3">That’s where I shall sleep.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">At the first turn of the road, the castle appeared in sight, standing at the end of a dark avenue of lime trees. </span><span id="kobo.396.2">From the distance, he saw Geneviève passing on the terrace.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">His heart was softly stirred:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“Geneviève, Geneviève,” he said, fondly. </span><span id="kobo.398.2">“Geneviève﻿ ﻿… the vow which I made to the dying mother is being fulfilled as well.</span><span id="kobo.398.3">﻿ ﻿… Geneviève a grand-duchess!</span><span id="kobo.398.4">﻿ ﻿… And I, in the shade, watching over her happiness﻿ ﻿… and pursuing the great schemes of Arsène Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">He burst out laughing, sprang behind a cluster of trees that stood to the left of the avenue and slipped along the thick shrubberies. </span><span id="kobo.399.2">In this way, he reached the castle without the possibility of his being seen from the windows of the drawing-room or the principal bedrooms.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">He wanted to see Dolores before she saw him and pronounced her name several times, as he had pronounced Geneviève’s, but with an emotion that surprised himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“Dolores.</span><span id="kobo.401.2">﻿ ﻿… Dolores.</span><span id="kobo.401.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">He stole along the passages and reached the dining-room. </span><span id="kobo.402.2">From this room, through a glass panel, he could see half the drawing-room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">He drew nearer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">Dolores was lying on a couch; and Pierre Leduc, on his knees before her, was gazing at her with eyes of ecstasy.</span><span id="kobo.404.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>