<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XVI: Arsène Lupin’s Three Murders</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-16" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XVI</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">Arsène Lupin’s Three Murders</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">A cyclone passed through Lupin’s brain, a hurricane in which roars of thunder, gusts of wind, squalls of all the distraught elements were tumultuously unchained in the chaotic night.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">And great flashes of lightning shot through the darkness. </span><span id="kobo.5.2">And, by the dazzling gleam of those lightning-flashes, Lupin, scared, shaken with thrills, convulsed with horror, saw and tried to understand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">He did not move, clinging to the enemy’s throat, as if his stiffened fingers were no longer able to release their grip. </span><span id="kobo.6.2">Besides, although he now </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.6.3">knew</span></em><span id="kobo.7.1">, he had not, so to speak, the exact feeling that it was Dolores. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">It was still the man in black, Louis de Malreich, the foul brute of the darkness; and that brute he held and did not mean to let go.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">But the truth rushed upon the attack of his mind and of his consciousness; and, conquered, tortured with anguish, he muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“Oh, Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.10.2">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.10.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">He at once saw the excuse: </span><span id="kobo.11.2">it was madness. </span><span id="kobo.11.3">She was mad. </span><span id="kobo.11.4">The sister of Altenheim and Isilda, the daughter of the last of the Malreichs, of the demented mother, of the drunken father, was herself mad. </span><span id="kobo.11.5">A strange madwoman, mad with every appearance of sanity, but mad nevertheless, unbalanced, brainsick, unnatural, truly monstrous.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">That he most certainly understood! </span><span id="kobo.12.2">It was homicidal madness. </span><span id="kobo.12.3">Under the obsession of an object toward which she was drawn automatically, she killed, thirsting for blood, unconsciously, infernally.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">She killed because she wanted something, she killed in self-defence, she killed because she had killed before. </span><span id="kobo.13.2">But she killed also and especially for the sake of killing. </span><span id="kobo.13.3">Murder satisfied sudden and irresistible appetites that arose in her. </span><span id="kobo.13.4">At certain seconds in her life, in certain circumstances, face to face with this or that being who had suddenly become the foe, her arm had to strike.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">And she struck, drunk with rage, ferociously, frenziedly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">A strange madwoman, not answerable for her murders, and yet so lucid in her blindness, so logical in her mental derangement, so intelligent in her absurdity! </span><span id="kobo.15.2">What skill, what perseverance, what cunning contrivances, at once abominable and admirable!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">And Lupin, in a rapid view, with prodigious keenness of outlook, saw the long array of bloodthirsty adventures and guessed the mysterious paths which Dolores had pursued.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">He saw her obsessed and possessed by her husband’s scheme, a scheme which she evidently understood only in part. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">He saw her, on her side, looking for that same Pierre Leduc whom her husband was seeking, looking for him in order to marry him and to return, as queen, to that little realm of Veldenz from which her parents had been ignominiously driven.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">And he saw her at the Palace Hotel, in the room of her brother, Altenheim, at the time when she was supposed to be at Monte Carlo. </span><span id="kobo.18.2">He saw her, for days together, spying upon her husband, creeping along the walls, one with the darkness, undistinguishable and unseen in her shadowy disguise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">And, one night, she found </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.19.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.20.1"> Kesselbach fastened up﻿ ﻿… and she stabbed him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">And, in the morning, when on the point of being denounced by the floor-waiter﻿ ﻿… she stabbed him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">And, an hour later, when on the point of being denounced by Chapman, she dragged him to her brother’s room﻿ ﻿… and stabbed him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">All this pitilessly, savagely, with diabolical skill.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">And, with the same skill, she communicated by telephone with her two maids, Gertrude and Suzanne, both of whom had arrived from Monte Carlo, where one of them had enacted the part of her mistress. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">And Dolores, resuming her feminine attire, discarding the fair wig that altered her appearance beyond recognition, went down to the ground-floor, joined Gertrude at the moment when the maid entered the hotel and pretended herself to have just arrived, all ignorant of the tragedy that awaited her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">An incomparable actress, she played the part of the wife whose life is shattered. </span><span id="kobo.26.2">Everyone pitied her. </span><span id="kobo.26.3">Everyone wept for her. </span><span id="kobo.26.4">Who could have suspected her?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">And then came the war with him, Lupin, that barbarous contest, that unparalleled contest which she waged, by turns, against </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.27.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.28.1"> Lenormand and Prince Sernine, spending her days stretched on her sofa, ill and fainting, but her nights on foot, scouring the roads indefatigable and terrible.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">And the diabolical contrivances: </span><span id="kobo.30.2">Gertrude and Suzanne, frightened and subdued accomplices, both of them serving her as emissaries, disguising themselves to represent her, perhaps, as on the day when old Steinweg was carried off by Baron Altenheim, in the middle of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.30.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.31.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">And the series of murders: </span><span id="kobo.33.2">Gourel drowned; Altenheim, her brother, stabbed. </span><span id="kobo.33.3">Oh, the implacable struggle in the underground passages of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.33.4">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.34.1">, the invisible work performed by the monster in the dark: </span><span id="kobo.34.2">how clear it all appeared today!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">And it was she who tore off his mask as Prince Sernine, she who betrayed him to the police, she who sent him to prison, she who thwarted all his plans, spending her millions to win the battle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">And then events followed faster: </span><span id="kobo.37.2">Suzanne and Gertrude disappeared, dead, no doubt! </span><span id="kobo.37.3">Steinweg, assassinated! </span><span id="kobo.37.4">Isilda, the sister, assassinated!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">“Oh, the ignominy, the horror of it!” </span><span id="kobo.38.2">stammered Lupin, with a start of revulsion and hatred.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">He execrated her, the abominable creature. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">He would have liked to crush her, to destroy her. </span><span id="kobo.39.3">And it was a stupefying sight, those two beings, clinging to each other, lying motionless in the pale dawn that began to mingle with the shades of the night.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Dolores.</span><span id="kobo.40.2">﻿ ﻿… Dolores.</span><span id="kobo.40.3">﻿ ﻿…” he muttered, in despair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">He leapt back, terror-stricken, wild-eyed. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">What was it? </span><span id="kobo.41.3">What was that? </span><span id="kobo.41.4">What was that hideous feeling of cold which froze his hands?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“Octave! </span><span id="kobo.42.2">Octave?” </span><span id="kobo.42.3">he shouted, forgetting that the chauffeur was not there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">Help, he needed help, someone to reassure him and assist him. </span><span id="kobo.43.2">He shivered with fright. </span><span id="kobo.43.3">Oh, that coldness, that coldness of death which he had felt! </span><span id="kobo.43.4">Was it possible?</span><span id="kobo.43.5">﻿ ﻿… Then, during those few tragic minutes, with his clenched fingers, he had.</span><span id="kobo.43.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">Violently, he forced himself to look. </span><span id="kobo.44.2">Dolores did not stir.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">He flung himself on his knees and drew her to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">She was dead.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.48.1">He remained for some seconds a prey to a sort of numbness in which his grief seemed to be swallowed up. </span><span id="kobo.48.2">He no longer suffered. </span><span id="kobo.48.3">He no longer felt rage nor hatred nor emotion of any kind﻿ ﻿… nothing but a stupid prostration, the sensation of a man who has received a blow with a club and who does not know if he is still alive, if he is thinking, or if he is the sport of a nightmare.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">Nevertheless, it seemed to him that an act of justice had taken place, and it did not for a second occur to him that it was he who had taken life. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">No, it was not he. </span><span id="kobo.49.3">It was outside him and his will. </span><span id="kobo.49.4">It was destiny, inexorable destiny that had accomplished the work of equity by slaying the noxious beast.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">Outside, the birds were singing. </span><span id="kobo.50.2">Life was recommencing under the old trees, which the spring was preparing to bring into bud. </span><span id="kobo.50.3">And Lupin, waking from his torpor, felt gradually welling up within him an indefinable and ridiculous compassion for the wretched woman, odious, certainly, abject and twenty times criminal, but so young still and now﻿ ﻿… dead.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">And he thought of the tortures which she must have undergone in her lucid moments, when reason returned to the unspeakable madwoman and brought the sinister vision of her deeds.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“Protect me.</span><span id="kobo.52.2">﻿ ﻿… I am so unhappy!” </span><span id="kobo.52.3">she used to beg.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">It was against herself that she asked to be protected, against her wild-beast instincts, against the monster that dwelt within her and forced her to kill, always to kill.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“Always?” </span><span id="kobo.54.2">Lupin asked himself.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">And he remembered the night, two days since, when, standing over him, with her dagger raised against the enemy who had been harassing her for months, against the indefatigable enemy who had run her to earth after each of her crimes, he remembered that, on that night, she had not killed. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">And yet it would have been easy: </span><span id="kobo.55.3">the enemy lay lifeless and powerless. </span><span id="kobo.55.4">One blow and the implacable struggle was over. </span><span id="kobo.55.5">No, she had not killed, she too had given way to feelings stronger than her own cruelty, to mysterious feelings of pity, of sympathy, of admiration for the man who had so often mastered her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">No, she had not killed, that time. </span><span id="kobo.56.2">And now, by a really terrifying vicissitude of fate, it was he who had killed her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“I have taken life!” </span><span id="kobo.57.2">he thought, shuddering from head to foot. </span><span id="kobo.57.3">“These hands have killed a living being; and that creature is Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.57.4">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.57.5">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.57.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">He never ceased repeating her name, her name of sorrow, and he never ceased staring at her, a sad, lifeless thing, harmless now, a poor hunk of flesh, with no more consciousness than a little heap of withered leaves or a little dead bird by the roadside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">Oh! </span><span id="kobo.59.2">how could he do other than quiver with compassion, seeing that of those two, face to face, he was the murderer, and she, who was no more, the victim?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.60.2">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.60.3">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.60.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.62.1">The daylight found Lupin seated beside the dead woman, remembering and thinking, while his lips, from time to time, uttered the disconsolate syllables:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.63.2">﻿ ﻿… Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.63.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">He had to act, however, and, in the disorder of his ideas, he did not know how to act nor with what act to begin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“I must close her eyes first,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">The eyes, all empty, filled only with death, those beautiful gold-spangled eyes, had still the melancholy softness that gave them their charm. </span><span id="kobo.66.2">Was it possible that those eyes were the eyes of a monster? </span><span id="kobo.66.3">In spite of himself and in the face of the implacable reality, Lupin was not yet able to blend into one single being those two creatures whose images remained so distinct at the back of his brain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">He stooped swiftly, lowered the long, silky eyelids, and covered the poor distorted face with a veil.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">Then it seemed to him that Dolores was farther away and that the man in black was really there, this time, in his dark clothes, in his murderer’s disguise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">He now ventured to touch her, to feel in her clothes. </span><span id="kobo.69.2">In an inside pocket were two pocketbooks. </span><span id="kobo.69.3">He took one of them and opened it. </span><span id="kobo.69.4">He found first a letter signed by Steinweg, the old German. </span><span id="kobo.69.5">It contained the following lines:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.70.1">“Should I die before being able to reveal the terrible secret, let it be known that the murderer of my friend Kesselbach is his wife, whose real name is Dolores de Malreich, sister to Altenheim and sister to Isilda.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“The initials </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.71.2">L.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.72.1"> and </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.73.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.74.1"> relate to her. </span><span id="kobo.74.2">Kesselbach never, in their private life, called his wife Dolores, which is the name of sorrow, but Letitia, which denotes joy. </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.75.1">L. </span><span id="kobo.75.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.76.1">﻿—Letitia de Malreich﻿—were the initials inscribed on all the presents which he used to give her, for instance, on the cigarette-case which was found at the Palace Hotel and which belonged to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.77.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.78.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.78.2">She had contracted the smoking-habit on her travels.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“Letitia! </span><span id="kobo.80.2">She was indeed the joy of his life for four years, four years of lies and hypocrisy, in which she prepared the death of the man who loved her so well and who trusted her so wholeheartedly.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“Perhaps I ought to have spoken at once. </span><span id="kobo.81.2">I had not the courage, in memory of my old friend Kesselbach, whose name she bore.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“And then I was afraid.</span><span id="kobo.82.2">﻿ ﻿… On the day when I unmasked her, at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.82.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.83.1">, I read my doom in her eyes.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“Will my weakness save me?”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“Him also,” thought Lupin, “him also she killed!</span><span id="kobo.87.2">﻿ ﻿… Why, of course, he knew too much!</span><span id="kobo.87.3">﻿ ﻿… The initials﻿ ﻿… that name, Letitia﻿ ﻿… the secret habit of smoking!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">And he remembered the previous night, that smell of tobacco in her room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">He continued his inspection of the first pocketbook. </span><span id="kobo.89.2">There were scraps of letters, in cipher, no doubt handed to Dolores by her accomplices, in the course of their nocturnal meetings. </span><span id="kobo.89.3">There were also addresses on bits of paper, addresses of milliners and dressmakers, but addresses also of low haunts, of common hotels.</span><span id="kobo.89.4">﻿ ﻿… And names﻿ ﻿… twenty, thirty names﻿ ﻿… queer names: </span><span id="kobo.89.5">Hector the Butcher, Armand of Grenelle, the Sick Man﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">But a photograph caught Lupin’s eye. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">He looked at it. </span><span id="kobo.90.3">And, at once, as though shot from a spring, dropping the pocketbook, he bolted out of the room, out of the chalet and rushed into the park.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">He had recognized the portrait of Louis de Malreich, the prisoner at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.91.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.92.1">!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">Not till then, not till that exact moment did he remember: </span><span id="kobo.94.2">the execution was to take place next day.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">And, as the man in black, as the murderer was none other than Dolores Kesselbach, Louis de Malreich’s name was really and truly Leon Massier and he was innocent!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">Innocent? </span><span id="kobo.96.2">But the evidence found in his house, the Emperor’s letters, all, all the things that accused him beyond hope of denial, all those incontrovertible proofs?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">Lupin stopped for a second, with his brain on fire:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“Oh,” he cried, “I shall go mad, I, too! </span><span id="kobo.98.2">Come, though, I must act﻿ ﻿… the sentence is to be executed﻿ ﻿… tomorrow﻿ ﻿… tomorrow at break of day.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">He looked at his watch:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“Ten o’clock.</span><span id="kobo.100.2">﻿ ﻿… How long will it take me to reach Paris? </span><span id="kobo.100.3">Well﻿ ﻿… I shall be there presently﻿ ﻿… yes, presently, I must.</span><span id="kobo.100.4">﻿ ﻿… And this very evening I shall take measures to prevent.</span><span id="kobo.100.5">﻿ ﻿… But what measures? </span><span id="kobo.100.6">How can I prove his innocence?</span><span id="kobo.100.7">﻿ ﻿… How prevent the execution? </span><span id="kobo.100.8">Oh, never mind! </span><span id="kobo.100.9">Once I am there, I shall find a way. </span><span id="kobo.100.10">My name is not Lupin for nothing!</span><span id="kobo.100.11">﻿ ﻿… Come on!</span><span id="kobo.100.12">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">He set off again at a run, entered the castle and called out:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“Pierre! </span><span id="kobo.102.2">Pierre!</span><span id="kobo.102.3">﻿ ﻿… Has anyone seen </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.102.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.103.1"> Pierre Leduc?</span><span id="kobo.103.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, there you are!</span><span id="kobo.103.3">﻿ ﻿… Listen.</span><span id="kobo.103.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">He took him on one side and jerked out, in imperious tones:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“Listen, Dolores is not here.</span><span id="kobo.106.2">﻿ ﻿… Yes, she was called away on urgent business﻿ ﻿… she left last night in my motor.</span><span id="kobo.106.3">﻿ ﻿… I am going too.</span><span id="kobo.106.4">﻿ ﻿… Don’t interrupt, not a word!</span><span id="kobo.106.5">﻿ ﻿… A second lost means irreparable harm.</span><span id="kobo.106.6">﻿ ﻿… You, send away all the servants, without any explanation. </span><span id="kobo.106.7">Here is money. </span><span id="kobo.106.8">In half an hour from now, the castle must be empty. </span><span id="kobo.106.9">And let no one enter it until I return.</span><span id="kobo.106.10">﻿ ﻿… Not you either, do you understand?</span><span id="kobo.106.11">﻿ ﻿… I forbid you to enter the castle.</span><span id="kobo.106.12">﻿ ﻿… I’ll explain later﻿ ﻿… serious reasons. </span><span id="kobo.106.13">Here, take the key with you.</span><span id="kobo.106.14">﻿ ﻿… Wait for me in the village.</span><span id="kobo.106.15">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">And once more, he darted away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">Five minutes later, he was with Octave. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">He jumped into the car:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“Paris!”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.111.1">The journey was a real race for life or death. </span><span id="kobo.111.2">Lupin, thinking that Octave was not driving fast enough, took the steering-wheel himself and drove at a furious, breakneck speed. </span><span id="kobo.111.3">On the road, through the villages, along the crowded streets of the towns they rushed at sixty miles an hour. </span><span id="kobo.111.4">People whom they nearly upset roared and yelled with rage: </span><span id="kobo.111.5">the meteor was far away, was out of sight.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“G﻿—governor,” stammered Octave, livid with dismay, “we shall be stuck!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“You, perhaps, the motor, perhaps; but I shall arrive!” </span><span id="kobo.113.2">said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">He had a feeling as though it were not the car that was carrying him, but he carrying the car and as though he were cleaving space by dint of his own strength, his own willpower. </span><span id="kobo.114.2">Then what miracle could prevent his arriving, seeing that his strength was inexhaustible, his willpower unbounded?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“I shall arrive because I have got to arrive,” he repeated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">And he thought of the man who would die, if he did not arrive in time to save him, of the mysterious Louis de Malreich, so disconcerting with his stubborn silence and his expressionless face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">And amid the roar of the road, under the trees whose branches made a noise as of furious waves, amid the buzzing of his thoughts, Lupin, all the same, strove to set up an hypothesis. </span><span id="kobo.117.2">And this hypothesis became gradually more defined, logical, probable, certain, he said to himself, now that he knew the hideous truth about Dolores and saw all the resources and all the odious designs of that crazy mind:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Yes, it was she who contrived that most terrible plot against Malreich. </span><span id="kobo.118.2">What was it she wanted? </span><span id="kobo.118.3">To marry Pierre Leduc, whom she had bewitched, and to become the sovereign of the little principality from which she had been banished. </span><span id="kobo.118.4">The object was attainable, within reach of her hand. </span><span id="kobo.118.5">There was one sole obstacle.</span><span id="kobo.118.6">﻿ ﻿… I, Lupin, who, for weeks and weeks, persistently barred her road; I, whom she encountered after every murder; I, whose perspicacity she dreaded; I, who would never lay down my arms before I had discovered the culprit and found the letters stolen from the Emperor.</span><span id="kobo.118.7">﻿ ﻿… Well, the culprit should be Louis de Malreich, or rather, Leon Massier. </span><span id="kobo.118.8">Who was this Leon Massier? </span><span id="kobo.118.9">Did she know him before her marriage? </span><span id="kobo.118.10">Had she been in love with him? </span><span id="kobo.118.11">It is probable; but this, no doubt, we shall never know. </span><span id="kobo.118.12">One thing is certain, that she was struck by the resemblance to Leon Massier in figure and stature which she might attain by dressing up like him, in black clothes, and putting on a fair wig. </span><span id="kobo.118.13">She must have noticed the eccentric life led by that lonely man, his nocturnal expeditions, his manner of walking in the streets and of throwing any who might follow him off the scent. </span><span id="kobo.118.14">And it was in consequence of these observations and in anticipation of possible eventualities that she advised </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.118.15">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.119.1"> Kesselbach to erase the name of Dolores from the register of births and to replace it by the name of Louis, so that the initials might correspond with those of Leon Massier.</span><span id="kobo.119.2">﻿ ﻿… The moment arrived at which she must act; and thereupon she concocted her plot and proceeded to put it into execution. </span><span id="kobo.119.3">Leon lived in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.120.1">Rue Delaizement</span><span id="kobo.121.1">. </span><span id="kobo.121.2">She ordered her accomplices to take up their quarters in the street that backed on to it. </span><span id="kobo.121.3">And she herself told me the address of Dominique the headwaiter, and put me on the track of the seven scoundrels, knowing perfectly well that, once on the track, I was bound to follow it to the end, that is to say, beyond the seven scoundrels, till I came up with their leader, the man who watched them and who commanded them, the man in black, Leon Massier, Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.121.4">﻿ ﻿… As a matter of fact, I came up with the seven scoundrels first. </span><span id="kobo.121.5">Then what would happen? </span><span id="kobo.121.6">Either I should be beaten or we should all destroy one another, as she must have hoped, that night in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.122.1">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.123.1">. </span><span id="kobo.123.2">In either case Dolores would have been rid of me. </span><span id="kobo.123.3">But what really happened was this: </span><span id="kobo.123.4">I captured the seven scoundrels. </span><span id="kobo.123.5">Dolores fled from the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.124.1">Rue des Vignes</span><span id="kobo.125.1">. </span><span id="kobo.125.2">I found her in the Broker’s shed. </span><span id="kobo.125.3">She sent me after Leon Massier, that is to say, Louis de Malreich. </span><span id="kobo.125.4">I found in his house the Emperor’s letters, </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.126.1">which she herself had placed there</span></em><span id="kobo.127.1">, and I delivered him to justice and I revealed the secret communication, </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.128.1">which she herself had caused to be made</span></em><span id="kobo.129.1">, between the two coach-houses, and I produced all the evidence </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.130.1">which she herself had prepared</span></em><span id="kobo.131.1">, and I proved, by means of documents </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.132.1">which she herself had forged</span></em><span id="kobo.133.1">, that Leon Massier had stolen the social status of Leon Massier and that his real name was Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.133.2">﻿ ﻿… And Louis de Malreich was sentenced to death.</span><span id="kobo.133.3">﻿ ﻿… And Dolores de Malreich, victorious at last, safe from all suspicion once the culprit was discovered, released from her infamous and criminal past, her husband dead, her brother dead, her sister dead, her two maids dead, Steinweg dead, delivered by me from her accomplices, whom I handed over to Weber all packed up, delivered, lastly, from herself by me, who was sending the innocent man whom she had substituted for herself to the scaffold, Dolores de Malreich, triumphant, rich with the wealth of her millions and loved by Pierre Leduc, Dolores de Malreich would sit upon the throne of her native grand-duchy.</span><span id="kobo.133.4">﻿ ﻿… Ah,” cried Lupin, beside himself with excitement, “that man shall not die! </span><span id="kobo.133.5">I swear it as I live: </span><span id="kobo.133.6">he shall not die!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“Look out, governor,” said Octave, scared, “we are near the town now﻿ ﻿… the outskirts﻿ ﻿… the suburbs.</span><span id="kobo.135.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“What shall I care?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“But we shall topple over.</span><span id="kobo.137.2">﻿ ﻿… And the pavement is greasy﻿ ﻿… we are skidding.</span><span id="kobo.137.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“Never mind.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Take care.</span><span id="kobo.139.2">﻿ ﻿… Look ahead.</span><span id="kobo.139.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“A tramcar, at the turn.</span><span id="kobo.141.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“Let it stop!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“Do slow down, governor!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“Never!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“But we have no room to pass!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“We shall get through.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“We can’t get through.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Yes, we can.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Oh, Lord!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">A crash﻿ ﻿… outcries.</span><span id="kobo.150.2">﻿ ﻿… The motor had run into the tramcar, cannoned against a fence, torn down ten yards of planking and, lastly, smashed itself against the corner of a slope.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“Driver, are you disengaged?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">Lupin, lying flat on the grass of the slope, had hailed a taxicab.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">He scrambled to his feet, gave a glance at his shattered car and the people crowding round to Octave’s assistance and jumped into the cab:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">“Go to the Ministry of the Interior, on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.154.2">Place Beauvau</span><span id="kobo.155.1">﻿ ﻿… Twenty francs for yourself.</span><span id="kobo.155.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">He settled himself in the taxi and continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“No, no, he shall not die! </span><span id="kobo.158.2">No, a thousand times no, I will not have that on my conscience! </span><span id="kobo.158.3">It is bad enough to have been tricked by a woman and to have fallen into the snare like a schoolboy.</span><span id="kobo.158.4">﻿ ﻿… That will do! </span><span id="kobo.158.5">No more blunders for me! </span><span id="kobo.158.6">I have had that poor wretch arrested.</span><span id="kobo.158.7">﻿ ﻿… I have had him sentenced to death.</span><span id="kobo.158.8">﻿ ﻿… I have brought him to the foot of the scaffold﻿ ﻿… but he shall not mount it!</span><span id="kobo.158.9">﻿ ﻿… Anything but that! </span><span id="kobo.158.10">If he mounts the scaffold, there will be nothing left for me but to put a bullet through my head.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">They were approaching the tollhouse. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">He leant out:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“Twenty francs more, driver, if you don’t stop.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">And he shouted to the officials:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“Detective-service!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">They passed through.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“But don’t slow down, don’t slow down, hang it!” </span><span id="kobo.164.2">roared Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.164.3">“Faster!</span><span id="kobo.164.4">﻿ ﻿… Faster still! </span><span id="kobo.164.5">Are you afraid of running over the old ladies? </span><span id="kobo.164.6">Never mind about them! </span><span id="kobo.164.7">I’ll pay the damage!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">In a few minutes, they were at the Ministry of the Interior. </span><span id="kobo.165.2">Lupin hurried across the courtyard and ran up the main staircase. </span><span id="kobo.165.3">The waiting-room was full of people. </span><span id="kobo.165.4">He scribbled on a sheet of paper, “Prince Sernine,” and, hustling a messenger into a corner, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“You know me, don’t you? </span><span id="kobo.166.2">I’m Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.166.3">I procured you this berth; a snug retreat for your old age, eh? </span><span id="kobo.166.4">Only, you’ve got to show me in at once. </span><span id="kobo.166.5">There, take my name through. </span><span id="kobo.166.6">That’s all I ask of you. </span><span id="kobo.166.7">The premier will thank you, you may be sure of that﻿ ﻿… and so I will.</span><span id="kobo.166.8">﻿ ﻿… But, hurry you fool! </span><span id="kobo.166.9">Valenglay is expecting me.</span><span id="kobo.166.10">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">Ten seconds later, Valenglay himself put his head through the door of his room and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Show the prince in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">Lupin rushed into the room, slammed the door and, interrupting the premier, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“No, no set phrases, you can’t arrest me.</span><span id="kobo.170.2">﻿ ﻿… It would mean ruining yourself and compromising the Emperor.</span><span id="kobo.170.3">﻿ ﻿… No, it’s not a question of that. </span><span id="kobo.170.4">Look here. </span><span id="kobo.170.5">Malreich is innocent.</span><span id="kobo.170.6">﻿ ﻿… I have discovered the real criminal.</span><span id="kobo.170.7">﻿ ﻿… It’s Dolores Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.170.8">She is dead. </span><span id="kobo.170.9">Her body is down there. </span><span id="kobo.170.10">I have undeniable proofs. </span><span id="kobo.170.11">There is no doubt possible. </span><span id="kobo.170.12">It was she.</span><span id="kobo.170.13">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">He stopped. </span><span id="kobo.171.2">Valenglay seemed not to understand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“But, look here, Monsieur le President, we must save Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.172.2">﻿ ﻿… Only think﻿ ﻿… a judicial error!</span><span id="kobo.172.3">﻿ ﻿… An innocent man guillotined!</span><span id="kobo.172.4">﻿ ﻿… Give your orders﻿ ﻿… say you have fresh information﻿ ﻿… anything you please﻿ ﻿… but, quick, there is no time to lose.</span><span id="kobo.172.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">Valenglay looked at him attentively, then went to a table, took up a newspaper and handed it to him, pointing his finger at an article as he did so.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">Lupin cast his eye at the headline and read:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<header class="calibre20">
					<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.175.1">“</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.175.2">Execution of the Monster</span></b><span id="kobo.176.1">”</span></p>
				</header>
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.179.1">“Louis de Malreich underwent the death-penalty this morning.</span><span id="kobo.179.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">He read no more. </span><span id="kobo.181.2">Thunderstruck, crushed, he fell into the premier’s chair with a moan of despair.</span><span id="kobo.181.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.183.1">How long he remained like that he could not say. </span><span id="kobo.183.2">When he was outside again, he remembered a great silence and then Valenglay bending over him and sprinkling water on his forehead. </span><span id="kobo.183.3">He remembered, above all, the premier’s hushed voice whispering:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“Listen﻿ ﻿… you won’t say anything about this will you? </span><span id="kobo.184.2">Innocent, perhaps, I don’t say not.</span><span id="kobo.184.3">﻿ ﻿… But what is the use of revelations, of a scandal? </span><span id="kobo.184.4">A judicial error can have serious consequences. </span><span id="kobo.184.5">Is it worth while?</span><span id="kobo.184.6">﻿ ﻿… A rehabilitation? </span><span id="kobo.184.7">For what purpose? </span><span id="kobo.184.8">He was not even sentenced under his own name. </span><span id="kobo.184.9">It is the name of Malreich which is held up to public execration﻿ ﻿… the name of the real criminal, as it happens.</span><span id="kobo.184.10">﻿ ﻿… So﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">And, pushing Lupin gradually toward the door, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“So go.</span><span id="kobo.186.2">﻿ ﻿… Go back there.</span><span id="kobo.186.3">﻿ ﻿… Get rid of the corpse.</span><span id="kobo.186.4">﻿ ﻿… And let not a trace remain, eh? </span><span id="kobo.186.5">Not the slightest trace of all this business.</span><span id="kobo.186.6">﻿ ﻿… I can rely on you, can I not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">And Lupin went back. </span><span id="kobo.187.2">He went back like a machine, because he had been told to do so and because he had no will left of his own.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.189.1">He waited for hours at the railway-station. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">Mechanically, he ate his dinner, took a ticket and settled down in a compartment.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">He slept badly. </span><span id="kobo.190.2">His brain was on fire between nightmares and half-waking intervals in which he tried to make out why Malreich had not defended himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“He was a madman﻿ ﻿… surely﻿ ﻿… half a madman.</span><span id="kobo.191.2">﻿ ﻿… He must have known her formerly﻿ ﻿… and she poisoned his life﻿ ﻿… she drove him crazy.</span><span id="kobo.191.3">﻿ ﻿… So he felt he might as well die.</span><span id="kobo.191.4">﻿ ﻿… Why defend himself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">The explanation only half satisfied him, and he promised himself sooner or later to clear up the riddle and to discover the exact part which Massier had played in Dolores’ life. </span><span id="kobo.192.2">But what did it matter for the moment? </span><span id="kobo.192.3">One fact alone stood out clearly, which was Massier’s madness, and he repeated, persistently:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“He was a madman﻿ ﻿… Massier was undoubtedly mad. </span><span id="kobo.193.2">Besides, all those Massiers﻿ ﻿… a family of madmen.</span><span id="kobo.193.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">He raved, mixing up names in his enfeebled brain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">But, on alighting at Bruggen Station, in the cool, moist air of the morning, his consciousness revived. </span><span id="kobo.195.2">Things suddenly assumed a different aspect. </span><span id="kobo.195.3">And he exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">“Well, after all, it was his own lookout! </span><span id="kobo.196.2">He had only to protest.</span><span id="kobo.196.3">﻿ ﻿… I accept no responsibility.</span><span id="kobo.196.4">﻿ ﻿… It was he who committed suicide.</span><span id="kobo.196.5">﻿ ﻿… He was only a dumb actor in the play.</span><span id="kobo.196.6">﻿ ﻿… He has gone under.</span><span id="kobo.196.7">﻿ ﻿… I am sorry.</span><span id="kobo.196.8">﻿ ﻿… But it can’t be helped!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">The necessity for action stimulated him afresh. </span><span id="kobo.197.2">Wounded, tortured by that crime of which he knew himself to be the author for all that he might say, he nevertheless looked to the future:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">“Those are the accidents of war,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.198.2">“Don’t let us think about it. </span><span id="kobo.198.3">Nothing is lost. </span><span id="kobo.198.4">On the contrary! </span><span id="kobo.198.5">Dolores was the stumbling-block, since Pierre Leduc loved her. </span><span id="kobo.198.6">Dolores is dead. </span><span id="kobo.198.7">Therefore Pierre Leduc belongs to me. </span><span id="kobo.198.8">And he shall marry Geneviève, as I have arranged! </span><span id="kobo.198.9">And he shall reign! </span><span id="kobo.198.10">And I shall be the master! </span><span id="kobo.198.11">And Europe, Europe is mine!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">He worked himself up, reassured, full of sudden confidence, and made feverish gestures as he walked along the road, whirling an imaginary sword, the sword of the leader whose will is law, who commands and triumphs:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">“Lupin, you shall be king! </span><span id="kobo.200.2">You shall be king, Arsène Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">He inquired in the village of Bruggen and heard that Pierre Leduc had lunched yesterday at the inn. </span><span id="kobo.201.2">Since then, he had not been seen.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“Oh?” </span><span id="kobo.202.2">asked Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.202.3">“Didn’t he sleep here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“But where did he go after his lunch?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“He took the road to the castle.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">Lupin walked away in some surprise. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">After all, he had told the young man to lock the doors and not to return after the servants had gone.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">He at once received a proof that Pierre had disobeyed him: </span><span id="kobo.207.2">the park gates were open.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">He went in, hunted all over the castle, called out. </span><span id="kobo.208.2">No reply.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">Suddenly, he thought of the chalet. </span><span id="kobo.209.2">Who could tell? </span><span id="kobo.209.3">Perhaps Pierre Leduc, worrying about the woman he loved and driven by an intuition, had gone to look for her in that direction. </span><span id="kobo.209.4">And Dolores’ corpse was there!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">Greatly alarmed, Lupin began to run.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">At first sight, there seemed to be no one in the chalet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“Pierre! </span><span id="kobo.212.2">Pierre!” </span><span id="kobo.212.3">he cried.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">Hearing no sound, he entered the front passage and the room which he had occupied.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">He stopped short, rooted to the threshold.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">Above Dolores’ corpse, hung Pierre Leduc, with a rope round his neck, dead.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.217.1">Lupin impatiently pulled himself together from head to foot. </span><span id="kobo.217.2">He refused to yield to a single gesture of despair. </span><span id="kobo.217.3">He refused to utter a single violent word. </span><span id="kobo.217.4">After the cruel blows which fate had dealt him, after Dolores’ crimes and death, after Massier’s execution, after all those disturbances and catastrophes, he felt the absolute necessity of retaining all his self-command. </span><span id="kobo.217.5">If not, his brain would undoubtedly give way.</span><span id="kobo.217.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“Idiot!” </span><span id="kobo.218.2">he said, shaking his fist at Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.218.3">“You great idiot, couldn’t you wait? </span><span id="kobo.218.4">In ten years we should have had Alsace-Lorraine again!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">To relieve his mind, he sought for words to say, for attitudes; but his ideas escaped him and his head seemed on the point of bursting.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">“Oh, no, no!” </span><span id="kobo.220.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.220.3">“None of that, thank you! </span><span id="kobo.220.4">Lupin mad too! </span><span id="kobo.220.5">No, old chap! </span><span id="kobo.220.6">Put a bullet through your head, if you like; and, when all is said, I don’t see any other way out. </span><span id="kobo.220.7">But Lupin drivelling, wheeled about in a bath-chair﻿ ﻿… no! </span><span id="kobo.220.8">Style, old fellow, finish in style!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">He walked up and down, stamping his feet and lifting his knees very high, as certain actors do when feigning madness. </span><span id="kobo.221.2">And he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“Swagger, my lad, swagger! </span><span id="kobo.222.2">The eyes of the gods are upon you! </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Lift up your head! </span><span id="kobo.222.4">Pull in your stomach, hang it! </span><span id="kobo.222.5">Throw out your chest!</span><span id="kobo.222.6">﻿ ﻿… Everything is breaking up around you. </span><span id="kobo.222.7">What do you care?</span><span id="kobo.222.8">﻿ ﻿… It’s the final disaster, I’ve played my last card, a kingdom in the gutter, I’ve lost Europe, the whole world ends in smoke.</span><span id="kobo.222.9">﻿ ﻿… Well﻿ ﻿… and what of it? </span><span id="kobo.222.10">Laugh, laugh! </span><span id="kobo.222.11">Be Lupin, or you’re in the soup.</span><span id="kobo.222.12">﻿ ﻿… Come, laugh! </span><span id="kobo.222.13">Louder than that, louder, louder! </span><span id="kobo.222.14">That’s right!</span><span id="kobo.222.15">﻿ ﻿… Lord, how funny it all is! </span><span id="kobo.222.16">Dolores, old girl, a cigarette!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">He bent down with a grin, touched the dead woman’s face, tottered for a second and fell to the ground unconscious.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.225.1">After lying for an hour, he came to himself and stood up. </span><span id="kobo.225.2">The fit of madness was over; and, master of himself, with relaxed nerves, serious and silent, he considered the position.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">He felt that the time had come for the irrevocable decisions that involve a whole existence. </span><span id="kobo.226.2">His had been utterly shattered, in a few days, under the assault of unforeseen catastrophes, rushing up, one after the other, at the very moment when he thought his triumph assured. </span><span id="kobo.226.3">What should he do? </span><span id="kobo.226.4">Begin again? </span><span id="kobo.226.5">Build up everything again? </span><span id="kobo.226.6">He had not the courage for it. </span><span id="kobo.226.7">What then?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">The whole morning, he roamed tragically about the park and gradually realized his position in all its slightest details. </span><span id="kobo.227.2">Little by little, the thought of death enforced itself upon him with inflexible rigor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">But, whether he decided to kill himself or to live, there was first of all a series of definite acts which he was obliged to perform. </span><span id="kobo.228.2">And these acts stood out clearly in his brain, which had suddenly become quite cool.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">The midday Angelus rang from the church-steeple.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“To work!” </span><span id="kobo.230.2">he said, firmly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">He returned to the chalet in a very calm frame of mind, went to his room, climbed on a stool, and cut the rope by which Pierre Leduc was hanging:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">“You poor devil!” </span><span id="kobo.232.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.232.3">“You were doomed to end like that, with a hempen tie around your neck. </span><span id="kobo.232.4">Alas, you were not made for greatness: </span><span id="kobo.232.5">I ought to have foreseen that and not hooked my fortune to a rhymester!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">He felt in the young man’s clothes and found nothing. </span><span id="kobo.233.2">But, remembering Dolores’ second pocketbook, he took it from the pocket where he had left it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">He gave a start of surprise. </span><span id="kobo.234.2">The pocketbook contained a bundle of letters whose appearance was familiar to him; and he at once recognized the different writings.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“The Emperor’s letters!” </span><span id="kobo.235.2">he muttered, slowly. </span><span id="kobo.235.3">“The old chancellor’s letters! </span><span id="kobo.235.4">The whole bundle which I myself found at Leon Massier’s and which I handed to Count von Waldemar!</span><span id="kobo.235.5">﻿ ﻿… How did it happen?</span><span id="kobo.235.6">﻿ ﻿… Did she take them in her turn from that blockhead of a Waldemar?” </span><span id="kobo.235.7">And, suddenly, slapping his forehead, “Why, no, the blockhead is myself. </span><span id="kobo.235.8">These are the real letters! </span><span id="kobo.235.9">She kept them to blackmail the Emperor when the time came. </span><span id="kobo.235.10">And the others, the ones which I handed over, are copies, forged by herself, of course, or by an accomplice, and placed where she knew that I should find them.</span><span id="kobo.235.11">﻿ ﻿… And I played her game for her, like a mug! </span><span id="kobo.235.12">By Jove, when women begin to interfere﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">There was only a piece of pasteboard left in the pocketbook, a photograph. </span><span id="kobo.236.2">He looked at it. </span><span id="kobo.236.3">It was his own.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“Two photographs﻿ ﻿… Massier and I﻿ ﻿… the two she loved best, no doubt﻿ ﻿… For she loved me.</span><span id="kobo.237.2">﻿ ﻿… A strange love, built up of admiration for the adventurer that I am, for the man who, by himself, put away the seven scoundrels whom she had paid to break my head! </span><span id="kobo.237.3">A strange love! </span><span id="kobo.237.4">I felt it throbbing in her the other day, when I told her my great dream of omnipotence. </span><span id="kobo.237.5">Then, really, she had the idea of sacrificing Pierre Leduc and subjecting her dream to mine. </span><span id="kobo.237.6">If the incident of the mirror had not taken place, she would have been subdued. </span><span id="kobo.237.7">But she was afraid. </span><span id="kobo.237.8">I had my hand upon the truth. </span><span id="kobo.237.9">My death was necessary for her salvation and she decided upon it.” </span><span id="kobo.237.10">He repeated several times, pensively, “And yet she loved me.</span><span id="kobo.237.11">﻿ ﻿… Yes, she loved me, as others have loved me﻿ ﻿… others to whom I have brought ill-luck also.</span><span id="kobo.237.12">﻿ ﻿… Alas, all those who love me die!</span><span id="kobo.237.13">﻿ ﻿… And this one died too, strangled by my hand.</span><span id="kobo.237.14">﻿ ﻿… What is the use of living?</span><span id="kobo.237.15">﻿ ﻿… What is the use of living?” </span><span id="kobo.237.16">he asked again, in a low voice. </span><span id="kobo.237.17">“Is it not better to join them, all those women who have loved me﻿ ﻿… and who have died of their love﻿ ﻿… Sonia, Raymonde, Clotilde, Destange, Miss Clarke?</span><span id="kobo.237.18">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">He laid the two corpses beside each other, covered them with the same sheet, sat down at a table and wrote:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.239.1">“I have triumphed over everything and I am beaten. </span><span id="kobo.239.2">I have reached the goal and I have fallen. </span><span id="kobo.239.3">Fate is too strong for me.</span><span id="kobo.239.4">﻿ ﻿… And she whom I loved is no more. </span><span id="kobo.239.5">I shall die also.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">And he signed his name:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.242.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">He sealed the letter and slipped it into a bottle which he flung through the window, on the soft ground of a flower-border.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">Next, he made a great pile on the floor with old newspapers, straw and shavings, which he went to fetch in the kitchen. </span><span id="kobo.245.2">On the top of it he emptied a gallon of petrol. </span><span id="kobo.245.3">Then he lit a candle and threw it among the shavings.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">A flame at once arose and other flames leapt forth, quick, glowing, crackling.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“Let’s clear out,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">“The chalet is built of wood, it will all flare up like a match. </span><span id="kobo.247.3">And, by the time they come from the village, break down the gates and run to this end of the park, it will be too late. </span><span id="kobo.247.4">They will find ashes, the remains of two charred corpses and, close at hand, my farewell letter in a bottle.</span><span id="kobo.247.5">﻿ ﻿… Goodbye, Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.247.6">Bury me simply, good people, without superfluous state﻿ ﻿… a poor man’s funeral﻿ ﻿… No flowers, no wreaths.</span><span id="kobo.247.7">﻿ ﻿… Just a humble cross and a plain epitaph; ‘Here lies Arsène Lupin, adventurer.’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">He made for the park wall, climbed over it, and turning round, saw the flames soaring up to the sky.</span><span id="kobo.248.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.250.1">He wandered back toward Paris on foot, bowed down by destiny, with despair in his heart. </span><span id="kobo.250.2">And the peasants were amazed at the sight of this traveller who paid with banknotes for his fifteen-penny meals.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">Three footpads attacked him one evening in the forest. </span><span id="kobo.251.2">He defended himself with his stick and left them lying for dead.</span><span id="kobo.251.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">He spent a week at an inn. </span><span id="kobo.252.2">He did not know where to go.</span><span id="kobo.252.3">﻿ ﻿… What was he to do? </span><span id="kobo.252.4">What was there for him to cling to? </span><span id="kobo.252.5">He was tired of life. </span><span id="kobo.252.6">He did not want to live.</span><span id="kobo.252.7">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.254.1">“Is that you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.255.1">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.256.1"> Ernemont stood in her little sitting-room in the villa at Garches, trembling, scared and livid, staring at the apparition that faced her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">Lupin!</span><span id="kobo.258.2">﻿ ﻿… It was Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“You!” </span><span id="kobo.259.2">she said. </span><span id="kobo.259.3">“You!</span><span id="kobo.259.4">﻿ ﻿… But the papers said﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">He smiled sadly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“Yes, I am dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“Well, then﻿ ﻿… well, then﻿ ﻿…” she said, naively.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“You mean that, if I am dead, I have no business here. </span><span id="kobo.263.2">Believe me, I have serious reasons, Victoire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“How you have changed!” </span><span id="kobo.264.2">she said, in a voice full of pity.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“A few little disappointments.</span><span id="kobo.265.2">﻿ ﻿… However, that’s over.</span><span id="kobo.265.3">﻿ ﻿… Tell me, is Geneviève in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">She flew at him, in a sudden rage:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“You leave her alone, do you hear? </span><span id="kobo.267.2">Geneviève? </span><span id="kobo.267.3">You want to see Geneviève, to take her back? </span><span id="kobo.267.4">Ah, this time I shall not let her out of my sight! </span><span id="kobo.267.5">She came back tired, white as a sheet, nervous; and the color has hardly yet returned to her cheeks. </span><span id="kobo.267.6">You shall leave her alone, I swear you shall.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">He pressed his hand hard on the old woman’s shoulder:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">“I </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.269.2">will</span></em><span id="kobo.270.1">﻿—do you understand?</span><span id="kobo.270.2">﻿—I </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.271.1">will</span></em><span id="kobo.272.1"> speak to her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“I mean to speak to her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">He pushed her about. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">She drew herself up and, crossing her arms:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“You shall pass over my dead body first, do you hear? </span><span id="kobo.278.2">The child’s happiness lies in this house and nowhere else.</span><span id="kobo.278.3">﻿ ﻿… With all your ideas of money and rank, you would only make her miserable. </span><span id="kobo.278.4">Who is this Pierre Leduc of yours? </span><span id="kobo.278.5">And that Veldenz of yours? </span><span id="kobo.278.6">Geneviève a grand-duchess! </span><span id="kobo.278.7">You are mad. </span><span id="kobo.278.8">That’s no life for her!</span><span id="kobo.278.9">﻿ ﻿… You see, after all, you have thought only of yourself in this matter. </span><span id="kobo.278.10">It was your power, your fortune you wanted. </span><span id="kobo.278.11">The child you don’t care a rap about. </span><span id="kobo.278.12">Have you so much as asked yourself if she loved your rascally grand-duke? </span><span id="kobo.278.13">Have you asked yourself if she loved anybody? </span><span id="kobo.278.14">No, you just pursued your object, that is all, at the risk of hurting Geneviève and making her unhappy for the rest of her life.</span><span id="kobo.278.15">﻿ ﻿… Well, I won’t have it! </span><span id="kobo.278.16">What she wants is a simple, honest existence, led in the broad light of day; and that is what you can’t give her. </span><span id="kobo.278.17">Then what are you here for?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">He seemed to waver, but, nevertheless, he murmured in a low voice and very sadly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“It is impossible that I should never see her again, it is impossible that I should not speak to her.</span><span id="kobo.280.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“She believes you dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“That is exactly what I do not want! </span><span id="kobo.282.2">I want her to know the truth. </span><span id="kobo.282.3">It is a torture to me to think that she looks upon me as one who is no more. </span><span id="kobo.282.4">Bring her to me, Victoire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">He spoke in a voice so gentle and so distressed that she was utterly moved, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“Listen.</span><span id="kobo.284.2">﻿ ﻿… First of all, I want to know.</span><span id="kobo.284.3">﻿ ﻿… It depends upon what you intend to say to her.</span><span id="kobo.284.4">﻿ ﻿… Be frank, my boy.</span><span id="kobo.284.5">﻿ ﻿… What do you want with Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">He said, gravely:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“I want to say this: </span><span id="kobo.286.2">‘Geneviève, I promised your mother to give you wealth, power, a fairy-like existence. </span><span id="kobo.286.3">And, on the day when I had attained my aim, I would have asked you for a little place, not very far from you. </span><span id="kobo.286.4">Rich and happy, you would have forgotten﻿—yes, I am sure of it﻿—you would have forgotten who I am, or rather who I was. </span><span id="kobo.286.5">Unfortunately, fate has been too strong for me. </span><span id="kobo.286.6">I bring you neither wealth nor power. </span><span id="kobo.286.7">And it is I, on the contrary, who have need of you. </span><span id="kobo.286.8">Geneviève, will you help me?’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“To do what?” </span><span id="kobo.287.2">asked the old woman, anxiously.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“To live.</span><span id="kobo.288.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.289.2">she said. </span><span id="kobo.289.3">“Has it come to that, my poor boy?</span><span id="kobo.289.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Yes,” he answered, simply, without any affectation of sorrow, “yes, it has come to that. </span><span id="kobo.290.2">Three human beings are just dead, killed by me, killed by my hands. </span><span id="kobo.290.3">The burden of the memory is more than I can bear. </span><span id="kobo.290.4">I am alone. </span><span id="kobo.290.5">For the first time in my life, I need help. </span><span id="kobo.290.6">I have the right to ask that help of Geneviève. </span><span id="kobo.290.7">And her duty is to give it to me.</span><span id="kobo.290.8">﻿ ﻿… If not﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">“If not﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“Then all is over.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">The old woman was silent, pale and quivering with emotion. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">She once more felt all her affection for him whom she had fed at her breast and who still and in spite of all remained “her boy.” </span><span id="kobo.293.3">She asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“What do you intend to do with her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“We shall go abroad. </span><span id="kobo.295.2">We will take you with us, if you like to come.</span><span id="kobo.295.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“But you forget﻿ ﻿… you forget.</span><span id="kobo.296.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“Your past.</span><span id="kobo.298.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“She will forget it too. </span><span id="kobo.299.2">She will understand that I am no longer the man I was, that I do not wish to be.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">“Then, really, what you wish is that she should share your life, the life of Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“The life of the man that I shall be, of the man who will work so that she may be happy, so that she may marry according to her inclination. </span><span id="kobo.301.2">We will settle down in some nook or other. </span><span id="kobo.301.3">We will struggle together, side by side. </span><span id="kobo.301.4">And you know what I am capable of.</span><span id="kobo.301.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">She repeated, slowly, with her eyes fixed on his:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“Then, really, you wish her to share Lupin’s life?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">He hesitated a second, hardly a second, and declared, plainly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“Yes, yes, I wish it, I have the right.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“You wish her to abandon all the children to whom she has devoted herself, all this life of work which she loves and which is essential to her happiness?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“Yes, I wish it, it is her duty.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">The old woman opened the window and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“In that case, call her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">Geneviève was in the garden, sitting on a bench. </span><span id="kobo.310.2">Four little girls were crowding round her. </span><span id="kobo.310.3">Others were playing and running about.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">He saw her full-face. </span><span id="kobo.311.2">He saw her grave, smiling eyes. </span><span id="kobo.311.3">She held a flower in her hand and plucked the petals one by one and gave explanations to the attentive and eager children. </span><span id="kobo.311.4">Then she asked them questions. </span><span id="kobo.311.5">And each answer was rewarded with a kiss to the pupil.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">Lupin looked at her long, with infinite emotion and anguish. </span><span id="kobo.312.2">A whole leaven of unknown feelings fermented within him. </span><span id="kobo.312.3">He had a longing to press that pretty girl to his breast, to kiss her and tell her how he respected and loved her. </span><span id="kobo.312.4">He remembered the mother, who died in the little village of Aspremont, who died of grief.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Call her,” said Victoire. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">“Why don’t you call her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">He sank into a chair and stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“I can’t.</span><span id="kobo.315.2">﻿ ﻿… I can’t do it.</span><span id="kobo.315.3">﻿ ﻿… I have not the right.</span><span id="kobo.315.4">﻿ ﻿… It is impossible.</span><span id="kobo.315.5">﻿ ﻿… Let her believe me dead.</span><span id="kobo.315.6">﻿ ﻿… That is better.</span><span id="kobo.315.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">He wept, his shoulders shaking with sobs, his whole being overwhelmed with despair, swollen with an affection that arose in him, like those backward flowers which die on the very day of their blossoming.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">The old woman knelt down beside him and, in a trembling voice, asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“She is your daughter, is she not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“Yes, she is my daughter.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“Oh, my poor boy!” </span><span id="kobo.320.2">she said, bursting into tears. </span><span id="kobo.320.3">“My poor boy!</span><span id="kobo.320.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>