<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>IV: Prince Sernine at Work</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-4" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">IV</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">Prince Sernine at Work</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">A ground-floor flat, at the corner of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.4.2">Boulevard Haussmann</span><span id="kobo.5.1"> and the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.6.1">Rue de Courcelles</span><span id="kobo.7.1">. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">Here lived Prince Sernine: </span><span id="kobo.7.3">Prince Sernine, one of the most brilliant members of the Russian colony in Paris, whose name was constantly recurring in the “Arrivals and Departures” column in the newspapers.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">Eleven o’clock in the morning. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">The prince entered his study. </span><span id="kobo.9.3">He was a man of thirty-eight or forty years of age, whose chestnut hair was mingled with a few silver threads on the temples. </span><span id="kobo.9.4">He had a fresh, healthy complexion and wore a large mustache and a pair of whiskers cut extremely short, so as to be hardly noticeable against the fresh skin of his cheeks.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">He was smartly dressed in a tight-fitting frock-coat and a white drill waistcoat, which showed above the opening.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“Come on!” </span><span id="kobo.11.2">he said, in an undertone. </span><span id="kobo.11.3">“I have a hard day’s work before me, I expect.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">He opened a door leading into a large room where a few people sat waiting, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“Is Varnier there? </span><span id="kobo.13.2">Come in, Varnier.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">A man looking like a small tradesman, squat, solidly built, firmly set upon his legs, entered at the summons. </span><span id="kobo.14.2">The prince closed the door behind him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“Well, Varnier, how far are you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Everything’s ready for this evening, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“Good. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">Tell me in a few words.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“It’s like this. </span><span id="kobo.18.2">After her husband’s murder, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.18.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.19.1"> Kesselbach, on the strength of the prospectuses which you ordered to be sent to her, selected as her residence the establishment known as the Retreat for Gentlewomen, at Garches. </span><span id="kobo.19.2">She occupies the last of the four small houses, at the bottom of the garden, which the management lets to ladies who prefer to live quite apart from the other boarders, the house known as the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.20.1">Pavillon de l’Impératrice</span><span id="kobo.21.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“What servants has she?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“Her companion, Gertrude, with whom she arrived a few hours after the crime, and Gertrude’s sister Suzanne, whom she sent for to Monte Carlo and who acts as her maid. </span><span id="kobo.24.2">The two sisters are devoted to her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“What about Edwards, the valet?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“She did not keep him. </span><span id="kobo.26.2">He has gone back to his own country.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“Does she see people?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">She spends her time lying on a sofa. </span><span id="kobo.28.3">She seems very weak and ill. </span><span id="kobo.28.4">She cries a great deal. </span><span id="kobo.28.5">Yesterday the examining-magistrate was with her for two hours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">“Very good. </span><span id="kobo.29.2">And now about the young girl.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.30.2">Mlle.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.31.1"> Geneviève Ernemont lives across the way﻿ ﻿… in a lane running toward the open country, the third house on the right in the lane. </span><span id="kobo.31.2">She keeps a free school for backward children. </span><span id="kobo.31.3">Her grandmother, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.32.1">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.33.1"> Ernemont, lives with her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">“And, according to what you wrote to me, Geneviève Ernemont and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.35.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.36.1"> Kesselbach have become acquainted?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.38.2">The girl went to ask </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.38.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.39.1"> Kesselbach for a subscription for her school. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">They must have taken a liking to each other, for, during the past four days, they have been walking together in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.40.1">Parc de Villeneuve</span><span id="kobo.41.1">, of which the garden of the Retreat is only a dependency.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“At what time do they go out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“From five to six. </span><span id="kobo.44.2">At six o’clock exactly the young lady goes back to her school.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“So you have arranged the thing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“For six o’clock today. </span><span id="kobo.46.2">Everything is ready.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“Will there be no one there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“There is never anyone in the park at that hour.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">I shall be there. </span><span id="kobo.49.3">You can go.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">He sent him out through the door leading to the hall, and, returning to the waiting-room, called:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“The brothers Doudeville.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">Two young men entered, a little overdressed, keen-eyed and pleasant-looking.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“Good morning, Jean. </span><span id="kobo.53.2">Good morning, Jacques. </span><span id="kobo.53.3">Any news at the Prefecture?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“Nothing much, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“Does </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.55.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.56.1"> Lenormand continue to have confidence in you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.58.2">Next to Gourel, we are his favorite inspectors. </span><span id="kobo.58.3">A proof is that he has posted us in the Palace Hotel to watch the people who were living on the first-floor passage at the time of Chapman’s murder. </span><span id="kobo.58.4">Gourel comes every morning, and we make the same report to him that we do to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Capital. </span><span id="kobo.59.2">It is essential that I should be informed of all that happens and all that is said at the Prefecture of Police. </span><span id="kobo.59.3">As long as Lenormand looks upon you as his men, I am master of the situation. </span><span id="kobo.59.4">And have you discovered a trail of any kind in the hotel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">Jean Doudeville, the elder of the two, replied:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“The Englishwoman who occupied one of the bedrooms has gone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“That doesn’t interest me. </span><span id="kobo.62.2">I know all about her. </span><span id="kobo.62.3">But her neighbor, Major Parbury?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">They seemed embarrassed. </span><span id="kobo.63.2">At last, one of them replied:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“Major Parbury, this morning, ordered his luggage to be taken to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.64.2">Gare du Nord</span><span id="kobo.65.1">, for the twelve-fifty train, and himself drove away in a motor. </span><span id="kobo.65.2">We were there when the train left. </span><span id="kobo.65.3">The major did not come.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“And the luggage?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“He had it fetched at the station.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“By whom?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“By a commissionaire, so we were told.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“Then his tracks are lost?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“At last!” </span><span id="kobo.73.2">cried the prince, joyfully.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">The others looked at him in surprise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">“Why, of course,” he said, “that’s a clue!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“Do you think so?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“Evidently. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">The murder of Chapman can only have been committed in one of the rooms on that passage. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.77.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.78.1"> Kesselbach’s murderer took the secretary there, to an accomplice, killed him there, changed his clothes there; and, once the murderer had got away, the accomplice placed the corpse in the passage. </span><span id="kobo.78.2">But which accomplice? </span><span id="kobo.78.3">The manner of Major Parbury’s disappearance goes to show that he knows something of the business. </span><span id="kobo.78.4">Quick, telephone the good news to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.79.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.80.1"> Lenormand or Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.80.2">The Prefecture must be informed as soon as possible. </span><span id="kobo.80.3">The people there and I are marching hand in hand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">He gave them a few more injunctions, concerning their double role as police-inspectors in the service of Prince Sernine, and dismissed them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">Two visitors remained in the waiting-room. </span><span id="kobo.83.2">He called one of them in:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">“A thousand pardons, Doctor,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.84.2">“I am quite at your orders now. </span><span id="kobo.84.3">How is Pierre Leduc?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“He’s dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">“Aha!” </span><span id="kobo.86.2">said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.86.3">“I expected it, after your note of this morning. </span><span id="kobo.86.4">But, all the same, the poor beggar has not been long.</span><span id="kobo.86.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“He was wasted to a shadow. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">A fainting-fit; and it was all over.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“Did he not speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">“Are you sure that, from the day when the two of us picked him up under the table in that low haunt at Belleville, are you sure that nobody in your nursing-home suspected that he was the Pierre Leduc whom the police were looking for, the mysterious Pierre Leduc whom </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.90.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.91.1"> Kesselbach was trying to find at all costs?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“Nobody. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">He had a room to himself. </span><span id="kobo.93.3">Moreover, I bandaged up his left hand so that the injury to the little finger could not be seen. </span><span id="kobo.93.4">As for the scar on the cheek, it is hidden by the beard.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“And you looked after him yourself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“Myself. </span><span id="kobo.95.2">And, according to your instructions, I took the opportunity of questioning him whenever he seemed at all clear in his head. </span><span id="kobo.95.3">But I could never get more than an inarticulate stammering out of him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">The prince muttered thoughtfully:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">“Dead!</span><span id="kobo.97.2">﻿ ﻿… So Pierre Leduc is dead?</span><span id="kobo.97.3">﻿ ﻿… The whole Kesselbach case obviously turned on him, and now he disappears﻿ ﻿… without a revelation, without a word about himself, about his past.</span><span id="kobo.97.4">﻿ ﻿… Ought I to embark on this adventure, in which I am still entirely in the dark? </span><span id="kobo.97.5">It’s dangerous.</span><span id="kobo.97.6">﻿ ﻿… I may come to grief.</span><span id="kobo.97.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">He reflected for a moment and exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Oh, who cares? </span><span id="kobo.99.2">I shall go on for all that. </span><span id="kobo.99.3">It’s no reason, because Pierre Leduc is dead, that I should throw up the game. </span><span id="kobo.99.4">On the contrary! </span><span id="kobo.99.5">And the opportunity is too tempting! </span><span id="kobo.99.6">Pierre Leduc is dead! </span><span id="kobo.99.7">Long live Pierre Leduc!</span><span id="kobo.99.8">﻿ ﻿… Go, Doctor, go home. </span><span id="kobo.99.9">I shall ring you up before dinner.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">The doctor went out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Now then, Philippe,” said Sernine to his last remaining visitor, a little gray-haired man, dressed like a waiter at a hotel, a very tenth-rate hotel, however.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“You will remember, governor,” Philippe began, “that last week, you made me go as boots to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.102.2">Hôtel des Deux-Empereurs</span><span id="kobo.103.1"> at Versailles, to keep my eye on a young man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“Yes, I know.</span><span id="kobo.105.2">﻿ ﻿… Gérard Baupré. </span><span id="kobo.105.3">How do things stand with him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“He’s at the end of his resources.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“Still full of gloomy ideas?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">He wants to kill himself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“Is he serious?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">“Quite. </span><span id="kobo.110.2">I found this little note in pencil among his papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“Ah!” </span><span id="kobo.111.2">said Sernine, reading the note. </span><span id="kobo.111.3">“He announces his suicide﻿ ﻿… and for this evening too!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Yes, governor, he has bought the rope and screwed the hook to the ceiling. </span><span id="kobo.112.2">Thereupon, acting on your instructions, I talked to him. </span><span id="kobo.112.3">He told me of his distress, and I advised him to apply to you: </span><span id="kobo.112.4">‘Prince Sernine is rich,’ I said; ‘he is generous; perhaps he will help you.’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“All this is first-rate. </span><span id="kobo.113.2">So he is coming?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“He is here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“How do you know?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“I followed him. </span><span id="kobo.116.2">He took the train to Paris, and he is walking up and down the boulevard at this minute. </span><span id="kobo.116.3">He will make up his mind from one moment to the other.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">Just then the servant brought in a card. </span><span id="kobo.117.2">The prince glanced at it and said to the man:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Show </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.118.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.119.1"> Gérard Baupré in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">Then, turning to Philippe:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“You go into the dressing-room, here; listen and don’t stir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">Left alone, the prince muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“Why should I hesitate? </span><span id="kobo.124.2">It’s fate that sends him my way.</span><span id="kobo.124.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">A few minutes later a tall young man entered. </span><span id="kobo.125.2">He was fair and slender, with an emaciated face and feverish eyes, and he stood on the threshold embarrassed, hesitating, in the attitude of a beggar who would like to put out his hand for alms and dares not.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">The conversation was brief:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“Are you </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.127.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.128.1"> Gérard Baupré?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿… that is my name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“I have not the honor﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“It’s like this, sir.</span><span id="kobo.132.2">﻿ ﻿… Someone told me﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">“Who?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“A hotel servant﻿ ﻿… who said he had been in your service.</span><span id="kobo.134.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“Please come to the point.</span><span id="kobo.135.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“Well!</span><span id="kobo.136.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">The young man stopped, taken aback and frightened by the haughty attitude adopted by the prince, who exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“But, sir, there must be some﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Well, sir, the man told me that you were very rich﻿ ﻿… and very generous.</span><span id="kobo.139.2">﻿ ﻿… And I thought that you might possibly﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">He broke off short, incapable of uttering the word of prayer and humiliation.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">Sernine went up to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.142.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.143.1"> Gérard Baupré, did you not publish a volume of poetry called </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.144.1">The Smile of Spring</span></i><span id="kobo.145.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“Yes, yes,” cried the young man, his face lighting up. </span><span id="kobo.147.2">“Have you read it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Yes.</span><span id="kobo.148.2">﻿ ﻿… Very pretty, your poems, very pretty.</span><span id="kobo.148.3">﻿ ﻿… Only, do you reckon upon being able to live on what they will bring you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Certainly﻿ ﻿… sooner or later.</span><span id="kobo.149.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Sooner or later? </span><span id="kobo.150.2">Later rather than sooner, I expect! </span><span id="kobo.150.3">And, meantime, you have come to ask me for the wherewithal to live?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“For the wherewithal to buy food, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">Sernine put his hand on the young man’s shoulder and, coldly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“Poets do not need food, monsieur. </span><span id="kobo.153.2">They live on rhymes and dreams. </span><span id="kobo.153.3">Do as they do. </span><span id="kobo.153.4">That is better than begging for bread.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">The young man quivered under the insult. </span><span id="kobo.154.2">He turned to the door without a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">Sernine stopped him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“One thing more, monsieur. </span><span id="kobo.156.2">Have you no resources of any kind?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“None at all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“And you are not reckoning on anything?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“I have one hope left: </span><span id="kobo.159.2">I have written to one of my relations, imploring him to send me something. </span><span id="kobo.159.3">I shall have his answer today. </span><span id="kobo.159.4">It is my last chance.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“And, if you have no answer, you have doubtless made up your mind, this very evening, to﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“Yes, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">This was said quite plainly and simply.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">Sernine burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“Bless my soul, what a queer young man you are! </span><span id="kobo.164.2">And full of artless conviction, too! </span><span id="kobo.164.3">Come and see me again next year, will you? </span><span id="kobo.164.4">We will talk about all this﻿ ﻿… it’s so curious, so interesting﻿ ﻿… and, above all, so funny!</span><span id="kobo.164.5">﻿ ﻿… Ha, ha, ha, ha!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">And, shaking with laughter, with affected bows and gestures, he showed him the door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“Philippe,” he said, admitting the hotel-servant, “did you hear?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“Yes, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Gérard Baupré is expecting a telegram this afternoon, a promise of assistance.</span><span id="kobo.168.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“Yes, it’s his last hope.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“He must not receive that telegram. </span><span id="kobo.170.2">If it comes, intercept it and tear it up.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Very well, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Are you alone at your hotel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“Yes, with the cook, who does not sleep in. </span><span id="kobo.173.2">The boss is away.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Good. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">So we are the masters. </span><span id="kobo.174.3">Till this evening, at eleven. </span><span id="kobo.174.4">Be off.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">Prince Sernine went to his room and rang for his servant:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“My hat, gloves, and stick. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">Is the car there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Yes, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">He dressed, went out, and sank into a large, comfortable limousine, which took him to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.178.2">Bois de Boulogne</span><span id="kobo.179.1">, to the Marquis and </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.180.1">Marquise de Gastyne</span><span id="kobo.181.1">’s, where he was engaged for lunch.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">At half-past two he took leave of his hosts, stopped in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.183.2">Avenue Kléber</span><span id="kobo.184.1">, picked up two of his friends and a doctor, and at five minutes to three arrived at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.185.1">Parc des Princes</span><span id="kobo.186.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">At three o’clock he fought a sword duel with the Italian Major Spinelli, cut his adversary’s ear in the first bout, and, at a quarter to four, took a bank at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.188.2">Rue Cambon</span><span id="kobo.189.1"> Club, from which he retired, at twenty minutes past five, after winning forty-seven thousand francs.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">And all this without hurrying, with a sort of haughty indifference, as though the feverish activity that sent his life whizzing through a whirl of tempestuous deeds and events were the ordinary rule of his most peaceful days.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Octave,” he said to his chauffeur, “go to Garches.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">And at ten minutes to six he alighted outside the old walls of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.193.2">Parc de Villeneuve</span><span id="kobo.194.1">.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.197.1">Although broken up nowadays and spoilt, the Villeneuve estate still retains something of the splendor which it knew at the time when the Empress Eugénie used to stay there. </span><span id="kobo.197.2">With its old trees, its lake and the leafy horizon of the woods of Saint-Cloud, the landscape has a certain melancholy grace.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">An important part of the estate was made over to the Pasteur Institute. </span><span id="kobo.198.2">A smaller portion, separated from the other by the whole extent of the space reserved for the public, forms a property contained within the walls which is still fairly large, and which comprises the House of Retreat, with four isolated garden-houses standing around it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“That is where </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.199.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.200.1"> Kesselbach lives,” said the prince to himself, catching sight of the roofs of the house and the four garden-houses in the distance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">He crossed the park and walked toward the lake.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">Suddenly he stopped behind a clump of trees. </span><span id="kobo.203.2">He had seen two ladies against the parapet of the bridge that crossed the lake:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Varnier and his men must be somewhere near. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">But, by Jove, they are keeping jolly well hidden! </span><span id="kobo.204.3">I can’t see them anywhere.</span><span id="kobo.204.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">The two ladies were now strolling across the lawns, under the tall, venerable trees. </span><span id="kobo.205.2">The blue of the sky appeared between the branches, which swayed in the peaceful breeze, and the scent of spring and of young vegetation was wafted through the air.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">On the grassy slopes that ran down to the motionless water, daisies, violets, daffodils, lilies of the valley, all the little flowers of April and May stood grouped, and, here and there, formed constellations of every color. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">The sun was sinking on the horizon.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">And, all at once, three men started from a thicket of bushes and made for the two ladies.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">They accosted them. </span><span id="kobo.208.2">A few words were exchanged. </span><span id="kobo.208.3">The ladies gave visible signs of dread. </span><span id="kobo.208.4">One of the men went up to the shorter of the two and tried to snatch the gold purse which she was carrying in her hand. </span><span id="kobo.208.5">They cried out; and the three men flung themselves upon them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“Now or never!” </span><span id="kobo.209.2">said the prince.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">And he rushed forward. </span><span id="kobo.210.2">In ten seconds he had almost reached the brink of the water. </span><span id="kobo.210.3">At his approach, the three men fled.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“Run away, you vagabonds,” he chuckled; “run for all you are worth! </span><span id="kobo.211.2">Here’s the rescuer coming!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">And he set out in pursuit of them. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">But one of the ladies entreated him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“Oh, sir, I beg of you﻿ ﻿… my friend is ill.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">The shorter lady had fallen on the grass in a dead faint.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">He retraced his steps and, anxiously:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“She is not wounded?” </span><span id="kobo.216.2">he asked. </span><span id="kobo.216.3">“Did those scoundrels﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">“No﻿ ﻿… no﻿ ﻿… it’s only the fright﻿ ﻿… the excitement.</span><span id="kobo.217.2">﻿ ﻿… Besides you will understand﻿ ﻿… the lady is </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.217.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.218.1"> Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.218.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.220.2">he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">He produced a bottle of smelling-salts, which the younger woman at once applied to her friend’s nostrils. </span><span id="kobo.221.2">And he added:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“Lift the amethyst that serves as a stopper.</span><span id="kobo.222.2">﻿ ﻿… You will see a little box containing some tabloids. </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Give madame one of them﻿ ﻿… one, no more﻿ ﻿… they are very strong.</span><span id="kobo.222.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">He watched the young woman helping her friend. </span><span id="kobo.223.2">She was fair-haired, very simply dressed; and her face was gentle and grave, with a smile that lit up her features even when she was not smiling.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“That is Geneviève,” he thought. </span><span id="kobo.224.2">And he repeated with emotion, “Geneviève﻿ ﻿… Geneviève.</span><span id="kobo.224.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">Meanwhile, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.225.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.226.1"> Kesselbach gradually recovered consciousness. </span><span id="kobo.226.2">She was astonished at first, seemed not to understand. </span><span id="kobo.226.3">Then, her memory returning, she thanked her deliverer with a movement of the head.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">He made a deep bow and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“Allow me to introduce myself.</span><span id="kobo.229.2">﻿ ﻿… I am Prince Sernine.</span><span id="kobo.229.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">She said, in a faint voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“I do not know how to express my gratitude.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">“By not expressing it at all, madame. </span><span id="kobo.232.2">You must thank chance, the chance that turned my steps in this direction. </span><span id="kobo.232.3">May I offer you my arm?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">A few minutes later, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.233.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.234.1"> Kesselbach rang at the door of the House of Retreat and said to the prince:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“I will ask one more service of you, monsieur. </span><span id="kobo.236.2">Do not speak of this assault.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“And yet, madame, it would be the only way of finding out﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“Any attempt to find out would mean an inquiry; and that would involve more noise and fuss about me, examinations, fatigue; and I am worn out as it is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">The prince did not insist. </span><span id="kobo.239.2">Bowing to her, he asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“Will you allow me to call and ask how you are?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Oh, certainly.</span><span id="kobo.241.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">She kissed Geneviève and went indoors.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">Meantime, night was beginning to fall. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">Sernine would not let Geneviève return alone. </span><span id="kobo.243.3">But they had hardly entered the path, when a figure, standing out against the shadow, hastened toward them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“Grandmother!” </span><span id="kobo.244.2">cried Geneviève.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">She threw herself into the arms of an old woman, who covered her with kisses:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Oh, my darling, my darling, what has happened? </span><span id="kobo.246.2">How late you are!</span><span id="kobo.246.3">﻿ ﻿… And you are always so punctual!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">Geneviève introduced the prince:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“Prince Sernine﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.248.2">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.249.1"> Ernemont, my grandmother.</span><span id="kobo.249.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">Then she related the incident, and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.251.2">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.252.1"> Ernemont repeated:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“Oh, my darling, how frightened you must have been!</span><span id="kobo.254.2">﻿ ﻿… I shall never forget your kindness, monsieur, I assure you.</span><span id="kobo.254.3">﻿ ﻿… But how frightened you must have been, my poor darling!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“Come, granny, calm yourself, as I am here.</span><span id="kobo.255.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“Yes, but the fright may have done you harm.</span><span id="kobo.256.2">﻿ ﻿… One never knows the consequences.</span><span id="kobo.256.3">﻿ ﻿… Oh, it’s horrible!</span><span id="kobo.256.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">They went along a hedge, through which a yard planted with trees, a few shrubs, a playground and a white house were just visible. </span><span id="kobo.257.2">Behind the house, sheltered by a clump of elder-trees arranged to form a covered walk, was a little gate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">The old lady asked Prince Sernine to come in and led the way to a little drawing-room or parlor. </span><span id="kobo.258.2">Geneviève asked leave to withdraw for a moment, to go and see her pupils, whose suppertime it was. </span><span id="kobo.258.3">The prince and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.258.4">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.259.1"> Ernemont remained alone.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">The old lady had a sad and a pale face, under her white hair, which ended in two long, loose curls. </span><span id="kobo.261.2">She was too stout, her walk was heavy and, notwithstanding her appearance and her dress, which was that of a lady, she had something a little vulgar about her; but her eyes were immensely kind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">Prince Sernine went up to her, took her head in his two hands and kissed her on both cheeks:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Well, old one, and how are you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">She stood dumbfounded, wild-eyed, open-mouthed. </span><span id="kobo.264.2">The prince kissed her again, laughing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">She spluttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“You! </span><span id="kobo.266.2">It’s you! </span><span id="kobo.266.3">O mother of God!</span><span id="kobo.266.4">﻿ ﻿… O mother of God!</span><span id="kobo.266.5">﻿ ﻿… Is it possible!</span><span id="kobo.266.6">﻿ ﻿… O mother of God!</span><span id="kobo.266.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“My dear old Victoire!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“Don’t call me that,” she cried, shuddering. </span><span id="kobo.268.2">“Victoire is dead﻿ ﻿… your old servant no longer exists.</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.268.3">3</span></a><span id="kobo.269.1"> I belong entirely to Geneviève.” </span><span id="kobo.269.2">And, lowering her voice, “O mother of God!</span><span id="kobo.269.3">﻿ ﻿… I saw your name in the papers: </span><span id="kobo.269.4">then it’s true that you have taken to your wicked life again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“As you see.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“And yet you swore to me that it was finished, that you were going away for good, that you wanted to become an honest man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“I tried. </span><span id="kobo.273.2">I have been trying for four years.</span><span id="kobo.273.3">﻿ ﻿… You can’t say that I have got myself talked about during those four years!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“Well, it bores me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">She gave a sigh and asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“Always the same.</span><span id="kobo.277.2">﻿ ﻿… You haven’t changed.</span><span id="kobo.277.3">﻿ ﻿… Oh, it’s settled, you never will change.</span><span id="kobo.277.4">﻿ ﻿… So you are in the Kesselbach case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“Why, of course! </span><span id="kobo.278.2">But for that, would I have taken the trouble to arrange for an attack on </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.278.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.279.1"> Kesselbach at six o’clock, so that I might have the opportunity of delivering her from the clutches of my own men at five minutes past? </span><span id="kobo.279.2">Looking upon me as her rescuer, she is obliged to receive me. </span><span id="kobo.279.3">I am now in the heart of the citadel and, while protecting the widow, can keep a lookout all round. </span><span id="kobo.279.4">Ah, you see, the sort of life which I lead does not permit me to lounge about and waste my time on little questions of politeness and such outside matters. </span><span id="kobo.279.5">I have to go straight to the point, violently, brutally, dramatically.</span><span id="kobo.279.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">She looked at him in dismay and gasped:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“I see﻿ ﻿… I see﻿ ﻿… it’s all lies about the attack.</span><span id="kobo.282.2">﻿ ﻿… But then﻿ ﻿… Geneviève﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“Why, I’m killing two birds with one stone! </span><span id="kobo.283.2">It was as easy to rescue two as one. </span><span id="kobo.283.3">Think of the time it would have taken, the efforts﻿—useless efforts, perhaps﻿—to worm myself into that child’s friendship! </span><span id="kobo.283.4">What was I to her? </span><span id="kobo.283.5">What should I be now? </span><span id="kobo.283.6">An unknown person﻿ ﻿… a stranger. </span><span id="kobo.283.7">Whereas now I am the rescuer. </span><span id="kobo.283.8">In an hour I shall be﻿ ﻿… the friend.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">She began to tremble:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“So﻿ ﻿… so you did not rescue Geneviève.</span><span id="kobo.285.2">﻿ ﻿… So you are going to mix us up in your affairs.</span><span id="kobo.285.3">﻿ ﻿…” And, suddenly, in a fit of rebellion, seizing him by the shoulders, “No, I won’t have it, do you understand? </span><span id="kobo.285.4">You brought the child to me one day, saying, ‘Here, I entrust her to you﻿ ﻿… her father and mother are dead﻿ ﻿… take her under your protection.’ </span><span id="kobo.285.5">Well, she’s under my protection now and I shall know how to defend her against you and all your manoeuvrs!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">Standing straight upright, in a very determined attitude, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.286.2">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.287.1"> Ernemont seemed ready for all emergencies.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">Slowly and deliberately Sernine loosened the two hands, one after the other, that held him, and in his turn, took the old lady by the shoulders, forced her into an armchair, stooped over and, in a very calm voice, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Rot!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">She began to cry and, clasping her hands together, implored him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“I beseech you, leave us in peace. </span><span id="kobo.292.2">We were so happy! </span><span id="kobo.292.3">I thought that you had forgotten us and I blessed Heaven every time a day had passed. </span><span id="kobo.292.4">Why, yes﻿ ﻿… I love you just the same. </span><span id="kobo.292.5">But, Geneviève﻿ ﻿… you see, there’s nothing that I wouldn’t do for that child. </span><span id="kobo.292.6">She has taken your place in my heart.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">“So I perceive,” said he, laughing. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">“You would send me to the devil with pleasure. </span><span id="kobo.293.3">Come, enough of this nonsense! </span><span id="kobo.293.4">I have no time to waste. </span><span id="kobo.293.5">I must talk to Geneviève.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“You’re going to talk to her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“Well, is that a crime?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“And what have you to tell her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“A secret﻿ ﻿… a very grave secret﻿ ﻿… and a very touching one.</span><span id="kobo.297.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">The old lady took fright:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“And one that will cause her sorrow, perhaps? </span><span id="kobo.299.2">Oh, I fear everything, I fear everything, where she’s concerned!</span><span id="kobo.299.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">“She is coming,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“No, not yet.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">“Yes, yes, I hear her.</span><span id="kobo.302.2">﻿ ﻿… Wipe your eyes and be sensible.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“Listen,” said she, eagerly, “listen. </span><span id="kobo.303.2">I don’t know what you are going to say, what secret you mean to reveal to this child whom you don’t know. </span><span id="kobo.303.3">But I, who do know her, tell you this: </span><span id="kobo.303.4">Geneviève has a very plucky, very spirited, but very sensitive nature. </span><span id="kobo.303.5">Be careful how you choose your words.</span><span id="kobo.303.6">﻿ ﻿… You might wound feelings﻿ ﻿… the existence of which you cannot even suspect.</span><span id="kobo.303.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“Lord bless me! </span><span id="kobo.304.2">And why not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“Because she belongs to another race than you, to a different world.</span><span id="kobo.305.2">﻿ ﻿… I mean, a different moral world.</span><span id="kobo.305.3">﻿ ﻿… There are things which you are forbidden to understand nowadays. </span><span id="kobo.305.4">Between you and her, the obstacle is insurmountable.</span><span id="kobo.305.5">﻿ ﻿… Geneviève has the most unblemished and upright conscience﻿ ﻿… and you﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“And I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“And you are not an honest man!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">Geneviève entered, bright and charming:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“All my babies have gone to bed; I have ten minutes to spare.</span><span id="kobo.309.2">﻿ ﻿… Why, grandmother, what’s the matter? </span><span id="kobo.309.3">You look quite upset.</span><span id="kobo.309.4">﻿ ﻿… Is it still that business with the﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“No, mademoiselle,” said Sernine, “I believe I have had the good fortune to reassure your grandmother. </span><span id="kobo.310.2">Only, we were talking of you, of your childhood; and that is a subject, it seems, which your grandmother cannot touch upon without emotion.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“Of my childhood?” </span><span id="kobo.311.2">said Geneviève, reddening. </span><span id="kobo.311.3">“Oh, grandmother!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“Don’t scold her, mademoiselle. </span><span id="kobo.312.2">The conversation turned in that direction by accident. </span><span id="kobo.312.3">It so happens that I have often passed through the little village where you were brought up.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Aspremont?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“Yes, Aspremont, near Nice. </span><span id="kobo.314.2">You used to live in a new house, white all over.</span><span id="kobo.314.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“Yes,” she said, “white all over, with a touch of blue paint round the windows.</span><span id="kobo.315.2">﻿ ﻿… I was only seven years old when I left Aspremont; but I remember the least things of that period. </span><span id="kobo.315.3">And I have not forgotten the glare of the sun on the white front of the house, nor the shade of the eucalyptus-tree at the bottom of the garden.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“At the bottom of the garden, mademoiselle, was a field of olive-trees; and under one of those olive-trees stood a table at which your mother used to work on hot days.</span><span id="kobo.316.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“That’s true, that’s true,” she said, quite excitedly, “I used to play by her side.</span><span id="kobo.317.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“And it was there,” said he, “that I saw your mother several times.</span><span id="kobo.318.2">﻿ ﻿… I recognized her image the moment I set eyes on you﻿ ﻿… but it was a brighter, happier image.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“Yes, my poor mother was not happy. </span><span id="kobo.319.2">My father died on the very day of my birth, and nothing was ever able to console her. </span><span id="kobo.319.3">She used to cry a great deal. </span><span id="kobo.319.4">I still possess a little handkerchief with which I used to dry her tears at that time.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“A little handkerchief with a pink pattern.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“What!” </span><span id="kobo.321.2">she exclaimed, seized with surprise. </span><span id="kobo.321.3">“You know﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“I was there one day when you were comforting her.</span><span id="kobo.322.2">﻿ ﻿… And you comforted her so prettily that the scene remained impressed on my memory.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">She gave him a penetrating glance and murmured, almost to herself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">“Yes, yes.</span><span id="kobo.324.2">﻿ ﻿… I seem to﻿ ﻿… The expression of your eyes﻿ ﻿… and then the sound of your voice.</span><span id="kobo.324.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">She lowered her eyelids for a moment and reflected as if she were vainly trying to bring back a recollection that escaped her. </span><span id="kobo.325.2">And she continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">“Then you knew her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“I had some friends living near Aspremont and used to meet her at their house. </span><span id="kobo.327.2">The last time I saw her, she seemed to me sadder still﻿ ﻿… paler﻿ ﻿… and, when I came back again﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">“It was all over, was it not?” </span><span id="kobo.328.2">said Geneviève. </span><span id="kobo.328.3">“Yes, she went very quickly﻿ ﻿… in a few weeks﻿ ﻿… and I was left alone with neighbors who sat up with her﻿ ﻿… and one morning they took her away.</span><span id="kobo.328.4">﻿ ﻿… And, on the evening of that day, someone came, while I was asleep, and lifted me up and wrapped me in blankets.</span><span id="kobo.328.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“A man?” </span><span id="kobo.329.2">asked the prince.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">“Yes, a man. </span><span id="kobo.330.2">He talked to me, quite low, very gently﻿ ﻿… his voice did me good﻿ ﻿… and, as he carried me down the road and also in the carriage, during the night, he rocked me in his arms and told me stories﻿ ﻿… in the same voice﻿ ﻿… in the same voice﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">She broke off gradually and looked at him again, more sharply than before and with a more obvious effort to seize the fleeting impression that passed over her at moments. </span><span id="kobo.331.2">He asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“And then? </span><span id="kobo.332.2">Where did he take you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“I can’t recollect clearly﻿ ﻿… it is just as though I had slept for several days.</span><span id="kobo.333.2">﻿ ﻿… I can remember nothing before the little town of Montégut, in the Vendée, where I spent the second half of my childhood, with Father and Mother Izereau, a worthy couple who reared me and brought me up and whose love and devotion I shall never forget.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“And did they die, too?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“Yes,” she said, “of an epidemic of typhoid fever in the district﻿ ﻿… but I did not know that until later.</span><span id="kobo.335.2">﻿ ﻿… As soon as they fell ill, I was carried off as on the first occasion and under the same conditions, at night, by someone who also wrapped me up in blankets.</span><span id="kobo.335.3">﻿ ﻿… Only, I was bigger, I struggled, I tried to call out﻿ ﻿… and he had to close my mouth with a silk handkerchief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“How old were you then?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">“Fourteen﻿ ﻿… it was four years ago.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">“Then you were able to see what the man was like?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“No, he hid his face better and he did not speak a single word to me.</span><span id="kobo.339.2">﻿ ﻿… Nevertheless, I have always believed him to be the same one﻿ ﻿… for I remember the same solicitude, the same attentive, careful movements.</span><span id="kobo.339.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“And after that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“After that, came oblivion, sleep, as before.</span><span id="kobo.341.2">﻿ ﻿… This time, I was ill, it appears; I was feverish.</span><span id="kobo.341.3">﻿ ﻿… And I woke in a bright, cheerful room. </span><span id="kobo.341.4">A white-haired lady was bending over me and smiling. </span><span id="kobo.341.5">It was grandmother﻿ ﻿… and the room was the one in which I now sleep upstairs.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">She had resumed her happy face, her sweet, radiant expression; and she ended, with a smile:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">“That was how she became my grandmother and how, after a few trials, the little Aspremont girl now knows the delights of a peaceful life and teaches grammar and arithmetic to little girls who are either naughty or lazy﻿ ﻿… but who are all fond of her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">She spoke cheerfully, in a tone at once thoughtful and gay, and it was obvious that she possessed a reasonable, well-balanced mind. </span><span id="kobo.344.2">Sernine listened to her with growing surprise and without trying to conceal his agitation:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“Have you never heard speak of that man since?” </span><span id="kobo.345.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">“Never.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">“And would you be glad to see him again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">“Oh, very glad.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">“Well, then, mademoiselle﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">Geneviève gave a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">“You know something﻿ ﻿… the truth perhaps﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">“No﻿ ﻿… no﻿ ﻿… only﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">He rose and walked up and down the room. </span><span id="kobo.353.2">From time to time, his eyes fell upon Geneviève; and it looked as though he were on the point of giving a more precise answer to the question which she had put to him. </span><span id="kobo.353.3">Would he speak?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.354.1">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.355.1"> Ernemont awaited with anguish the revelation of the secret upon which the girl’s future peace might depend.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">He sat down beside Geneviève, appeared to hesitate, and said at last:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“No﻿ ﻿… no﻿ ﻿… just now﻿ ﻿… an idea occurred to me﻿ ﻿… a recollection﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“A recollection?</span><span id="kobo.359.2">﻿ ﻿… And﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“I was mistaken. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">Your story contained certain details that misled me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">“Are you sure?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">He hesitated and then declared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“Absolutely sure.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.364.1">“Oh,” said she, greatly disappointed. </span><span id="kobo.364.2">“I had half guessed﻿ ﻿… that that man whom I saw twice﻿ ﻿… that you knew him﻿ ﻿… that﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">She did not finish her sentence, but waited for an answer to the question which she had put to him without daring to state it completely.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">He was silent. </span><span id="kobo.366.2">Then, insisting no further, she bent over </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.366.3">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.367.1"> Ernemont:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“Good night, grandmother. </span><span id="kobo.369.2">My children must be in bed by this time, but they could none of them go to sleep before I had kissed them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">She held out her hand to the prince:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“Thank you once more.</span><span id="kobo.371.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“Are you going?” </span><span id="kobo.372.2">he asked quickly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“Yes, if you will excuse me; grandmother will see you out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">He bowed low and kissed her hand. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">As she opened the door, she turned round and smiled. </span><span id="kobo.374.3">Then she disappeared. </span><span id="kobo.374.4">The prince listened to the sound of her footsteps diminishing in the distance and stood stock-still, his face white with emotion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“Well,” said the old lady, “so you did not speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">“No.</span><span id="kobo.376.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">“That secret﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“Later.</span><span id="kobo.378.2">﻿ ﻿… Today﻿ ﻿… oddly enough﻿ ﻿… I was not able to.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">“Was it so difficult? </span><span id="kobo.379.2">Did not she herself feel that you were the stranger who took her away twice.</span><span id="kobo.379.3">﻿ ﻿… A word would have been enough.</span><span id="kobo.379.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“Later, later,” he repeated, recovering all his assurance. </span><span id="kobo.380.2">“You can understand﻿ ﻿… the child hardly knows me.</span><span id="kobo.380.3">﻿ ﻿… I must first gain the right to her affection, to her love.</span><span id="kobo.380.4">﻿ ﻿… When I have given her the life which she deserves, a wonderful life, such as one reads of in fairytales, then I will speak.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">The old lady tossed her head:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“I fear that you are making a great mistake. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">Geneviève does not want a wonderful life. </span><span id="kobo.382.3">She has simple tastes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">“She has the tastes of all women; and wealth, luxury and power give joys which not one of them despises.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“Yes, Geneviève does. </span><span id="kobo.384.2">And you would do much better﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">“We shall see. </span><span id="kobo.385.2">For the moment, let me go my own way. </span><span id="kobo.385.3">And be quite easy. </span><span id="kobo.385.4">I have not the least intention, as you say, of mixing her up in any of my manoeuvrs. </span><span id="kobo.385.5">She will hardly ever see me.</span><span id="kobo.385.6">﻿ ﻿… Only, we had to come into contact, you know.</span><span id="kobo.385.7">﻿ ﻿… That’s done.</span><span id="kobo.385.8">﻿ ﻿… Goodbye.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">He left the school and walked to where his motorcar was waiting for him. </span><span id="kobo.386.2">He was perfectly happy:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“She is charming﻿ ﻿… and so gentle, so grave! </span><span id="kobo.387.2">Her mother’s eyes, eyes that soften you﻿ ﻿… Heavens, how long ago that all is! </span><span id="kobo.387.3">And what a delightful recollection! </span><span id="kobo.387.4">A little sad, but so delightful!” </span><span id="kobo.387.5">And he said, aloud, “Certainly I shall look after her happiness! </span><span id="kobo.387.6">And that at once! </span><span id="kobo.387.7">This very evening! </span><span id="kobo.387.8">That’s it, this very evening she shall have a sweetheart! </span><span id="kobo.387.9">Is not love the essential condition of any young girl’s happiness?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">He found his car on the highroad:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“Home,” he said to Octave.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.391.1">When Sernine reached home, he rang up Neuilly and telephoned his instructions to the friend whom he called the doctor. </span><span id="kobo.391.2">Then he dressed, dined at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.391.3">Rue Cambon</span><span id="kobo.392.1"> Club, spent an hour at the opera and got into his car again:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">“Go to Neuilly, Octave. </span><span id="kobo.394.2">We are going to fetch the doctor. </span><span id="kobo.394.3">What’s the time?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">“Half-past ten.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“Dash it! </span><span id="kobo.396.2">Look sharp!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">Ten minutes later, the car stopped at the end of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.397.2">Boulevard Inkerman</span><span id="kobo.398.1">, outside a villa standing in its own grounds. </span><span id="kobo.398.2">The doctor came down at the sound of the hooter. </span><span id="kobo.398.3">The prince asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">“Is the fellow ready?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“Packed up, strung up, sealed up.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“In good condition?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">“Excellent. </span><span id="kobo.403.2">If everything goes as you telephoned, the police will be utterly at sea.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">“That’s what they’re there for. </span><span id="kobo.404.2">Let’s get him on board.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">They carried into the motor a sort of long sack shaped like a human being and apparently rather heavy. </span><span id="kobo.405.2">And the prince said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.406.1">“Go to Versailles, Octave, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.406.2">Rue de la Vilaine</span><span id="kobo.407.1">. </span><span id="kobo.407.2">Stop outside the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.408.1">Hôtel des Deux-Empereurs</span><span id="kobo.409.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“Why, it’s a filthy hotel,” observed the doctor. </span><span id="kobo.411.2">“I know it well; a regular hovel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.412.1">“You needn’t tell me! </span><span id="kobo.412.2">And it will be a hard piece of work, for me, at least.</span><span id="kobo.412.3">﻿ ﻿… But, by Jove, I wouldn’t sell this moment for a fortune! </span><span id="kobo.412.4">Who dares pretend that life is monotonous?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">They reached the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.413.2">Hôtel des Deux-Empereurs</span><span id="kobo.414.1">. </span><span id="kobo.414.2">A muddy alley; two steps down; and they entered a passage lit by a flickering lamp.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.416.1">Sernine knocked with his fist against a little door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.417.1">A waiter appeared, Philippe, the man to whom Sernine had given orders, that morning, concerning Gérard Baupré.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.418.1">“Is he here still?” </span><span id="kobo.418.2">asked the prince.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">“The rope?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">“The knot is made.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.422.1">“He has not received the telegram he was hoping for?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.423.1">“I intercepted it: </span><span id="kobo.423.2">here it is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">Sernine took the blue paper and read it:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“Gad!” </span><span id="kobo.425.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.425.3">“It was high time. </span><span id="kobo.425.4">This is to promise him a thousand francs for tomorrow. </span><span id="kobo.425.5">Come, fortune is on my side. </span><span id="kobo.425.6">A quarter to twelve.</span><span id="kobo.425.7">﻿ ﻿… In a quarter of an hour, the poor devil will take a leap into eternity. </span><span id="kobo.425.8">Show me the way, Philippe. </span><span id="kobo.425.9">You stay here, Doctor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">The waiter took the candle. </span><span id="kobo.426.2">They climbed to the third floor, and, walking on tiptoe, went along a low and evil-smelling corridor, lined with garrets and ending in a wooden staircase covered with the musty remnants of a carpet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">“Can no one hear me?” </span><span id="kobo.427.2">asked Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.428.2">The two rooms are quite detached. </span><span id="kobo.428.3">But you must be careful not to make a mistake: </span><span id="kobo.428.4">he is in the room on the left.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">“Very good. </span><span id="kobo.429.2">Now go downstairs. </span><span id="kobo.429.3">At twelve o’clock, the doctor, Octave and you are to carry the fellow up here, to where we now stand, and wait till I call you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.430.1">The wooden staircase had ten treads, which the prince climbed with definite caution. </span><span id="kobo.430.2">At the top was a landing with two doors. </span><span id="kobo.430.3">It took Sernine quite five minutes to open the one of the right without breaking the silence with the least sound of a creaking hinge.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">A light gleamed through the darkness of the room. </span><span id="kobo.431.2">Feeling his way, so as not to knock against one of the chairs, he made for that light. </span><span id="kobo.431.3">It came from the next room and filtered through a glazed door covered with a tattered hanging.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">The prince pulled the threadbare stuff aside. </span><span id="kobo.432.2">The panes were of ground glass, but scratched in parts, so that, by applying one eye, it was easy to see all that happened in the other room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">Sernine saw a man seated at a table facing him. </span><span id="kobo.433.2">It was the poet, Gérard Baupré. </span><span id="kobo.433.3">He was writing by the light of a candle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">Above his head hung a rope, which was fastened to a hook fixed in the ceiling. </span><span id="kobo.434.2">At the end of the rope was a slipknot.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">A faint stroke sounded from a clock in the street.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.436.1">“Five minutes to twelve,” thought Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.436.2">“Five minutes more.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">The young man was still writing. </span><span id="kobo.437.2">After a moment, he put down his pen, collected the ten or twelve sheets of paper which he had covered and began to read them over.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">What he read did not seem to please him, for an expression of discontent passed across his face. </span><span id="kobo.438.2">He tore up his manuscript and burnt the pieces in the flame of the candle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">Then, with a fevered hand, he wrote a few words on a clean sheet, signed it savagely and rose from his chair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.440.1">But, seeing the rope at ten inches above his head, he sat down again suddenly with a great shudder of alarm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.441.1">Sernine distinctly saw his pale features, his lean cheeks, against which he pressed his clenched fists. </span><span id="kobo.441.2">A tear trickled slowly down his face, a single, disconsolate tear. </span><span id="kobo.441.3">His eyes gazed into space, eyes terrifying in their unutterable sadness, eyes that already seemed to behold the dread unknown.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">And it was so young a face! </span><span id="kobo.442.2">Cheeks still so smooth, with not a blemish, not a wrinkle! </span><span id="kobo.442.3">And blue eyes, blue like an eastern sky!</span><span id="kobo.442.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">Midnight﻿ ﻿… the twelve tragic strokes of midnight, to which so many a despairing man has hitched the last second of his existence!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.444.1">At the twelfth stroke, he stood up again and, bravely this time, without trembling, looked at the sinister rope. </span><span id="kobo.444.2">He even tried to give a smile, a poor smile, the pitiful grimace of the doomed man whom death has already seized for its own.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">Swiftly he climbed the chair and took the rope in one hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">For a moment, he stood there, motionless: </span><span id="kobo.446.2">not that he was hesitating or lacking in courage. </span><span id="kobo.446.3">But this was the supreme moment, the one minute of grace which a man allows himself before the fatal deed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">He gazed at the squalid room to which his evil destiny had brought him, the hideous paper on the walls, the wretched bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.448.1">On the table, not a book: </span><span id="kobo.448.2">all were sold. </span><span id="kobo.448.3">Not a photograph, not a letter: </span><span id="kobo.448.4">he had no father, no mother, no relations. </span><span id="kobo.448.5">What was there to make him cling to life?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.449.1">With a sudden movement he put his head into the slipknot and pulled at the rope until the noose gripped his neck.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">And, kicking the chair from him with both feet, he leapt into space.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.452.1">Ten seconds, fifteen seconds passed, twenty formidable, eternal seconds.</span><span id="kobo.452.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.453.1">The body gave two or three jerks. </span><span id="kobo.453.2">The feet had instinctively felt for a resting-place. </span><span id="kobo.453.3">Then nothing moved.</span><span id="kobo.453.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.454.1">A few seconds more.</span><span id="kobo.454.2">﻿ ﻿… The little glazed door opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.455.1">Sernine entered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.456.1">Without the least haste he took the sheet of paper to which the young man had set his signature, and read:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.457.1">“Tired of living, ill, penniless, hopeless, I am taking my own life. </span><span id="kobo.457.2">Let no one be accused of my death.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature"><span id="kobo.458.1">“Gérard Baupré.</span></p>
					<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">“30 April.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.462.1">He put back the paper on the table where it could be seen, picked up the chair and placed it under the young man’s feet. </span><span id="kobo.462.2">He himself climbed up on the table and, holding the body close to him, lifted it up, loosened the slipknot and passed the head through it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.463.1">The body sank into his arms. </span><span id="kobo.463.2">He let it slide along the table and, jumping to the floor, laid it on the bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.464.1">Then, with the same coolness, he opened the door on the passage:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.465.1">“Are you there, all the three of you?” </span><span id="kobo.465.2">he whispered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.466.1">Someone answered from the foot of the wooden staircase near him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.467.1">“We are here. </span><span id="kobo.467.2">Are we to hoist up our bundle?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.468.1">“Yes, come along!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">He took the candle and showed them a light.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.470.1">The three men trudged up the stairs, carrying the sack in which the “fellow” was tied up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.471.1">“Put him here,” he said, pointing to the table.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.472.1">With a pocketknife, he cut the cords round the sack. </span><span id="kobo.472.2">A white sheet appeared, which he flung back. </span><span id="kobo.472.3">In the sheet was a corpse, the corpse of Pierre Leduc.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.473.1">“Poor Pierre Leduc!” </span><span id="kobo.473.2">said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.473.3">“You will never know what you lost by dying so young! </span><span id="kobo.473.4">I should have helped you to go far, old chap. </span><span id="kobo.473.5">However, we must do without your services.</span><span id="kobo.473.6">﻿ ﻿… Now then, Philippe, get up on the table; and you, Octave, on the chair. </span><span id="kobo.473.7">Lift up his head and fasten the slipknot.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.474.1">Two minutes later, Pierre Leduc’s body was swinging at the end of the rope.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.475.1">“Capital, that was quite simple! </span><span id="kobo.475.2">Now you can all of you go. </span><span id="kobo.475.3">You, Doctor, will call back here tomorrow morning; you will hear of the suicide of a certain Gérard Baupré: </span><span id="kobo.475.4">you understand, Gérard Baupré. </span><span id="kobo.475.5">Here is his farewell letter. </span><span id="kobo.475.6">You will send for the divisional surgeon and the commissary; you will arrange that neither of them notices that the deceased has a cut finger or a scar on one cheek.</span><span id="kobo.475.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.476.1">“That’s easy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.477.1">“And you will manage so as to have the report written then and there, to your dictation.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.478.1">“That’s easy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.479.1">“Lastly, avoid having the body sent to the Morgue and make them give permission for an immediate burial.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.480.1">“That’s not so easy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.481.1">“Try. </span><span id="kobo.481.2">Have you examined the other one?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.482.1">He pointed to the young man lying lifeless on the bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.483.1">“Yes,” said the doctor. </span><span id="kobo.483.2">“The breathing is becoming normal. </span><span id="kobo.483.3">But it was a big risk to run﻿ ﻿… the carotid artery might have﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.484.1">“Nothing venture, nothing have.</span><span id="kobo.484.2">﻿ ﻿… How soon will he recover consciousness?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.485.1">“In a few minutes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.486.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.486.2">Oh, by the way, don’t go yet, Doctor. </span><span id="kobo.486.3">Wait for me downstairs. </span><span id="kobo.486.4">There is more for you to do.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.487.1">The prince, when he found himself alone, lit a cigarette and puffed at it quietly, sending little blue rings of smoke floating up to the ceiling.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.488.1">A sigh roused him from his thoughts. </span><span id="kobo.488.2">He went to the bed. </span><span id="kobo.488.3">The young man was beginning to move; and his chest rose and fell violently, like that of a sleeper under the influence of a nightmare. </span><span id="kobo.488.4">He put his hands to his throat, as though he felt a pain there; and this action suddenly made him sit up, terrified, panting.</span><span id="kobo.488.5">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.489.1">Then he saw Sernine in front of him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.490.1">“You?” </span><span id="kobo.490.2">he whispered, without understanding. </span><span id="kobo.490.3">“You?</span><span id="kobo.490.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.491.1">He gazed at him stupidly, as though he had seen a ghost.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.492.1">He again touched his throat, felt round his neck.</span><span id="kobo.492.2">﻿ ﻿… And suddenly he gave a hoarse cry; a mad terror dilated his eyes, made his hair stand on end, shook him from head to foot like an aspen-leaf! </span><span id="kobo.492.3">The prince had moved aside; and he saw the man’s corpse hanging from the rope.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.493.1">He flung himself back against the wall. </span><span id="kobo.493.2">That man, that hanged man, was himself! </span><span id="kobo.493.3">He was dead and he was looking at his own dead body! </span><span id="kobo.493.4">Was this a hideous dream that follows upon death? </span><span id="kobo.493.5">A hallucination that comes to those who are no more and whose distracted brain still quivers with a last flickering gleam of life?</span><span id="kobo.493.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.494.1">His arms struck at the air. </span><span id="kobo.494.2">For a moment, he seemed to be defending himself against the squalid vision. </span><span id="kobo.494.3">Then, exhausted, he fainted away for the second time.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.495.1">“First-rate,” said the prince, with a grin. </span><span id="kobo.495.2">“A sensitive, impressionable nature.</span><span id="kobo.495.3">﻿ ﻿… At present, the brain is out of gear.</span><span id="kobo.495.4">﻿ ﻿… Come, this is a propitious moment.</span><span id="kobo.495.5">﻿ ﻿… But, if I don’t get the business done in twenty minutes﻿ ﻿… he’ll escape me.</span><span id="kobo.495.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.496.1">He pushed open the door between the two garrets, came back to the bed, lifted the young man and carried him to the bed in the other room. </span><span id="kobo.496.2">Then he bathed his temples with cold water and made him sniff at some salts.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.497.1">This time, the swoon did not last long.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.498.1">Gérard timidly opened his eyes and raised them to the ceiling. </span><span id="kobo.498.2">The vision was gone. </span><span id="kobo.498.3">But the arrangement of the furniture, the position of the table and the fireplace, and certain other details all surprised him﻿ ﻿… And then came the remembrance of his act, the pain which he felt at his throat.</span><span id="kobo.498.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.499.1">He said to the prince:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.500.1">“I have had a dream, have I not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.501.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.502.1">“How do you mean, no?” </span><span id="kobo.502.2">And, suddenly recollecting, “Oh, that’s true, I remember.</span><span id="kobo.502.3">﻿ ﻿… I meant to kill myself﻿ ﻿… and I even﻿ ﻿…” Bending forward anxiously, “But the rest, the vision﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.503.1">“What vision?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.504.1">“The man﻿ ﻿… the rope﻿ ﻿… was that a dream?</span><span id="kobo.504.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.505.1">“No,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.505.2">“That also was real.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.506.1">“What are you saying? </span><span id="kobo.506.2">What are you saying?</span><span id="kobo.506.3">﻿ ﻿… Oh, no, no!</span><span id="kobo.506.4">﻿ ﻿… I entreat you!</span><span id="kobo.506.5">﻿ ﻿… Wake me, if I am asleep﻿ ﻿… or else let me die!</span><span id="kobo.506.6">﻿ ﻿… But I am dead, am I not? </span><span id="kobo.506.7">And this is the nightmare of a corpse!</span><span id="kobo.506.8">﻿ ﻿… Oh, I feel my brain going!</span><span id="kobo.506.9">﻿ ﻿… I entreat you.</span><span id="kobo.506.10">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.507.1">Sernine placed his hand gently on the young man’s head and, bending over him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.508.1">“Listen to me﻿ ﻿… listen to me carefully and understand what I say. </span><span id="kobo.508.2">You are alive. </span><span id="kobo.508.3">Your matter and your mind are as they were and live. </span><span id="kobo.508.4">But Gérard Baupré is dead. </span><span id="kobo.508.5">You understand me, do you not? </span><span id="kobo.508.6">That member of society who was known as Gérard Baupré has ceased to exist. </span><span id="kobo.508.7">You have done away with that one. </span><span id="kobo.508.8">Tomorrow, the registrar will write in his books, opposite the name you bore, the word ‘Dead,’ with the date of your decease.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.509.1">“It’s a lie!” </span><span id="kobo.509.2">stammered the terrified lad. </span><span id="kobo.509.3">“It’s a lie! </span><span id="kobo.509.4">Considering that I, Gérard Baupré, am here!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.510.1">“You are not Gérard Baupré,” declared Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.510.2">And, pointing to the open door, “Gérard Baupré is there, in the next room. </span><span id="kobo.510.3">Do you wish to see him? </span><span id="kobo.510.4">He is hanging from the nail to which you hooked him. </span><span id="kobo.510.5">On the table is a letter in which you certify his death with your signature. </span><span id="kobo.510.6">It is all quite regular, it is all final. </span><span id="kobo.510.7">There is no getting away from the irrevocable, brutal fact: </span><span id="kobo.510.8">Gérard Baupré has ceased to exist!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.511.1">The young man listened in despair. </span><span id="kobo.511.2">Growing calmer, now that facts were assuming a less tragic significance, he began to understand:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.512.1">“And then﻿ ﻿…” he muttered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.513.1">“And then﻿ ﻿… let us talk.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.514.1">“Yes, yes﻿ ﻿… let us talk.</span><span id="kobo.514.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.515.1">“A cigarette?” </span><span id="kobo.515.2">asked the prince. </span><span id="kobo.515.3">“Will you have one? </span><span id="kobo.515.4">Ah, I see that you are becoming reconciled to life! </span><span id="kobo.515.5">So much the better: </span><span id="kobo.515.6">we shall understand each other; and that quickly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.516.1">He lit the young man’s cigarette and his own and, at once, in a few words uttered in a hard voice, explained himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.517.1">“You, the late Gérard Baupré, were weary of life, ill, penniless, hopeless.</span><span id="kobo.517.2">﻿ ﻿… Would you like to be well, rich, and powerful?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.518.1">“I don’t follow you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.519.1">“It is quite simple. </span><span id="kobo.519.2">Accident has placed you on my path. </span><span id="kobo.519.3">You are young, good-looking, a poet; you are intelligent and﻿—your act of despair shows it﻿—you have a fine sense of conduct. </span><span id="kobo.519.4">These are qualities which are rarely found united in one person. </span><span id="kobo.519.5">I value them﻿ ﻿… and I take them for my account.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.520.1">“They are not for sale.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.521.1">“Idiot! </span><span id="kobo.521.2">Who talks of buying or selling? </span><span id="kobo.521.3">Keep your conscience. </span><span id="kobo.521.4">It is too precious a jewel for me to relieve you of it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.522.1">“Then what do you ask of me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.523.1">“Your life!” </span><span id="kobo.523.2">And, pointing to the bruises on the young man’s throat, “Your life, which you have not known how to employ! </span><span id="kobo.523.3">Your life, which you have bungled, wasted, destroyed and which, I propose to build up again, in accordance with an ideal of beauty, greatness and dignity that would make you giddy, my lad, if you saw the abyss into which my secret thought plunges.</span><span id="kobo.523.4">﻿ ﻿…” He had taken Gérard’s head between his hands and he continued, eagerly: </span><span id="kobo.523.5">“You are free! </span><span id="kobo.523.6">No shackles! </span><span id="kobo.523.7">You have no longer the weight of your name to bear! </span><span id="kobo.523.8">You have got rid of that number with which society had stamped you as though branding you on the shoulder. </span><span id="kobo.523.9">You are free! </span><span id="kobo.523.10">In this world of slaves where each man bears his label you can either come and go unknown, invisible, as if you owned Gyges’ ring﻿ ﻿… or else you can choose your own label, the one you like best! </span><span id="kobo.523.11">Do you understand the magnificent treasure which you represent to an artist﻿ ﻿… to yourself, if you like? </span><span id="kobo.523.12">A virgin life, a brand-new life! </span><span id="kobo.523.13">Your life is the wax which you have the right to fashion as you please, according to the whims of your imagination and the counsels of your reason.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.524.1">The young man made a gesture expressive of weariness:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.525.1">“Ah, what would you have me do with that treasure? </span><span id="kobo.525.2">What have I done with it so far? </span><span id="kobo.525.3">Nothing!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.526.1">“Give it to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.527.1">“What can you do with it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.528.1">“Everything. </span><span id="kobo.528.2">If you are not an artist, I am; and an enthusiastic artist, inexhaustible, indomitable, exuberant. </span><span id="kobo.528.3">If you have not the Promethean fire, I have! </span><span id="kobo.528.4">Where you failed, I shall succeed. </span><span id="kobo.528.5">Give me your life.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.529.1">“Words, promises!” </span><span id="kobo.529.2">cried the young man, whose features began to glow with animation. </span><span id="kobo.529.3">“Empty dreams! </span><span id="kobo.529.4">I know my own worthlessness! </span><span id="kobo.529.5">I know my cowardice, my despondency, my efforts that come to nothing, all my wretchedness. </span><span id="kobo.529.6">To begin life anew, I should need a will which I do not possess.</span><span id="kobo.529.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.530.1">“I possess mine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.531.1">“Friends.</span><span id="kobo.531.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.532.1">“You shall have them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.533.1">“Means.</span><span id="kobo.533.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.534.1">“I am providing you with means﻿ ﻿… and such means! </span><span id="kobo.534.2">You will only have to dip, as one would dip into a magic coffer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.535.1">“But who are you?” </span><span id="kobo.535.2">cried the young man, wildly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.536.1">“To others, Prince Sernine.</span><span id="kobo.536.2">﻿ ﻿… To you﻿ ﻿… what does it matter? </span><span id="kobo.536.3">I am more than a prince, more than a king, more than an emperor.</span><span id="kobo.536.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.537.1">“Who are you?</span><span id="kobo.537.2">﻿ ﻿… Who are you?” </span><span id="kobo.537.3">stammered Baupré.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.538.1">“The Master﻿ ﻿… he who will and who can﻿ ﻿… he who acts.</span><span id="kobo.538.2">﻿ ﻿… There are no bounds to my will, there is none to my power. </span><span id="kobo.538.3">I am richer than the richest man alive, for his fortune is mine.</span><span id="kobo.538.4">﻿ ﻿… I am more powerful than the mightiest, for their might is at my service!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.539.1">He took the other’s head in his hands again and, looking deep into his eyes:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.540.1">“Be rich, too﻿ ﻿… be mighty.</span><span id="kobo.540.2">﻿ ﻿… I offer you happiness﻿ ﻿… and the joy of living﻿ ﻿… and peace for your poet’s brain﻿ ﻿… and fame and glory also.</span><span id="kobo.540.3">﻿ ﻿… Do you accept?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.541.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿…” whispered Gérard, dazzled and overmastered. </span><span id="kobo.541.2">“What am I to do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.542.1">“Nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.543.1">“But﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.544.1">“Nothing, I say. </span><span id="kobo.544.2">The whole scaffolding of my plans rests on you, but you do not count. </span><span id="kobo.544.3">You have no active part to play. </span><span id="kobo.544.4">You are, for the moment, but a silent actor, or not even that, but just a pawn which I move along the board.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.545.1">“What shall I do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.546.1">“Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.546.2">Write poetry. </span><span id="kobo.546.3">You shall live as you please. </span><span id="kobo.546.4">You shall have money. </span><span id="kobo.546.5">You shall enjoy life. </span><span id="kobo.546.6">I will not even bother my head about you. </span><span id="kobo.546.7">I repeat, you play no part in my venture.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.547.1">“And who shall I be?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.548.1">Sernine stretched out his arm and pointed to the next room:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.549.1">“You shall take that man’s place. </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.549.2">You are that man!</span></em><span id="kobo.550.1">”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.552.1">Gérard shuddered with revolt and disgust:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.553.1">“Oh, no, he is dead!</span><span id="kobo.553.2">﻿ ﻿… And then﻿ ﻿… it is a crime!</span><span id="kobo.553.3">﻿ ﻿… No, I want a new life, made for me, thought out for me﻿ ﻿… an unknown name.</span><span id="kobo.553.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.554.1">“That man, I tell you!” </span><span id="kobo.554.2">cried Sernine, irresistible in his energy and authority. </span><span id="kobo.554.3">“You shall be that man and none other! </span><span id="kobo.554.4">That man, because his destiny is magnificent, because his name is illustrious, and because he hands down to you a thrice-venerable heritage of ancestral dignity and pride.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.555.1">“It is a crime!” </span><span id="kobo.555.2">moaned Baupré, faltering.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.556.1">“You shall be that man!” </span><span id="kobo.556.2">spoke Sernine, with unparalleled vehemence. </span><span id="kobo.556.3">“You shall be that man! </span><span id="kobo.556.4">If not, you become Baupré again; and over Baupré I own rights of life and death. </span><span id="kobo.556.5">Choose.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.557.1">He drew his revolver, cocked it and took aim at the young man:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.558.1">“Choose,” he repeated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.559.1">The expression of his face was implacable. </span><span id="kobo.559.2">Gérard was frightened and sank down on his bed sobbing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.560.1">“I wish to live!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.561.1">“You wish it firmly, irrevocably?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.562.1">“Yes, a thousand times yes! </span><span id="kobo.562.2">After the terrible thing which I attempted, death appals me.</span><span id="kobo.562.3">﻿ ﻿… Anything﻿ ﻿… anything rather than death!</span><span id="kobo.562.4">﻿ ﻿… Anything!</span><span id="kobo.562.5">﻿ ﻿… Pain﻿ ﻿… hunger﻿ ﻿… illness﻿ ﻿… every torture, every shame﻿ ﻿… crime itself, if need be﻿ ﻿… but not death!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.563.1">He shivered with fever and agony, as though the great enemy were still prowling round him and as though he felt himself powerless to escape from its clutches. </span><span id="kobo.563.2">The prince redoubled his efforts and, in a fervent voice, holding him under him like a prey:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.564.1">“I will ask nothing impossible of you, nothing wrong.</span><span id="kobo.564.2">﻿ ﻿… If there is anything, I am responsible.</span><span id="kobo.564.3">﻿ ﻿… No, no crime﻿ ﻿… a little pain at most.</span><span id="kobo.564.4">﻿ ﻿… A little of your blood must flow. </span><span id="kobo.564.5">But what is that, compared with the dread of dying?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.565.1">“Pain is indifferent to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.566.1">“Then here and now!” </span><span id="kobo.566.2">shouted Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.566.3">“Here and now! </span><span id="kobo.566.4">Ten seconds of pain and that is all.</span><span id="kobo.566.5">﻿ ﻿… Ten seconds and the other’s life is yours.</span><span id="kobo.566.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.567.1">He had seized him round the body and forced him down on a chair; and he now held the young man’s left hand flat on the table, with his five fingers spread out. </span><span id="kobo.567.2">He swiftly took a knife from his pocket, pressed the blade against the little finger, between the first and second joints, and commanded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.568.1">“Strike! </span><span id="kobo.568.2">Strike your own blow. </span><span id="kobo.568.3">One blow of the fist and that is all!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.569.1">He had taken Gérard’s right hand and was trying to bring it down upon the other like a hammer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.570.1">Gérard writhed and twisted, convulsed with horror. </span><span id="kobo.570.2">He understood:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.571.1">“Never!” </span><span id="kobo.571.2">he stuttered. </span><span id="kobo.571.3">“Never!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.572.1">“Strike! </span><span id="kobo.572.2">One blow and it’s done! </span><span id="kobo.572.3">One blow and you will be like that man: </span><span id="kobo.572.4">no one will recognize you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.573.1">“Tell me his name.</span><span id="kobo.573.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.574.1">“Strike first!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.575.1">“Never! </span><span id="kobo.575.2">Oh, what torture!</span><span id="kobo.575.3">﻿ ﻿… I beseech you﻿ ﻿… presently.</span><span id="kobo.575.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.576.1">“Now.</span><span id="kobo.576.2">﻿ ﻿… I insist﻿ ﻿… you must﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.577.1">“No﻿ ﻿… no﻿ ﻿… I can’t do it.</span><span id="kobo.577.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.578.1">“Strike, you fool! </span><span id="kobo.578.2">It means fortune, fame, love.</span><span id="kobo.578.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.579.1">Gérard raised his fist with a sudden movement.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.580.1">“Love,” he said, “yes﻿ ﻿… for that, yes.</span><span id="kobo.580.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.581.1">“You will love and be loved,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.581.2">“Your betrothed awaits you. </span><span id="kobo.581.3">I have chosen her myself. </span><span id="kobo.581.4">She is the purest of the pure, the fairest of the fair. </span><span id="kobo.581.5">But you must win her. </span><span id="kobo.581.6">Strike!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.582.1">The lad’s arm stiffened for the fatal blow; but the instinct of self-preservation was too strong for him. </span><span id="kobo.582.2">His body was wrung with a superhuman effort. </span><span id="kobo.582.3">He suddenly released himself from Sernine’s hold and fled.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.583.1">He rushed like a madman to the other room. </span><span id="kobo.583.2">A yell of terror escaped him, at the sight of the abominable vision, and he came back and fell on his knees before Sernine, beside the table.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.584.1">“Strike!” </span><span id="kobo.584.2">said the prince, again spreading out the lad’s fingers and fixing the blade of the knife.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.585.1">What followed was done mechanically. </span><span id="kobo.585.2">With an automatic movement, with haggard eyes and a livid face, the young man raised his fist and struck:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.586.1">“Ah!” </span><span id="kobo.586.2">he cried, with a moan of pain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.587.1">A small piece of flesh was separated from the little finger. </span><span id="kobo.587.2">Blood flowed. </span><span id="kobo.587.3">For the third time, Gérard fainted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.588.1">Sernine looked at him for a second or two and said, gently:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.589.1">“Poor little chap!</span><span id="kobo.589.2">﻿ ﻿… There, I’ll reward you for what you’ve done; and a hundred times over. </span><span id="kobo.589.3">I always pay generously.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.590.1">He went downstairs and found the doctor waiting below:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.591.1">“It’s done. </span><span id="kobo.591.2">Go upstairs, you, and make a little cut in his right cheek, similar to Pierre Leduc’s. </span><span id="kobo.591.3">The two scars must be exactly alike. </span><span id="kobo.591.4">I shall come back for you in an hour.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.592.1">“Where are you going?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.593.1">“To take the air. </span><span id="kobo.593.2">My heart feels anyhow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.594.1">Outside he drew a long breath and lit another cigarette:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.595.1">“A good day’s work,” he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.595.2">“A little overcrowded, a little tiring, but fruitful, really fruitful. </span><span id="kobo.595.3">I am Dolores Kesselbach’s friend. </span><span id="kobo.595.4">I am Geneviève’s friend. </span><span id="kobo.595.5">I have manufactured a new Pierre Leduc, a very presentable one and entirely at my disposal. </span><span id="kobo.595.6">Lastly, I have found Geneviève a husband of the sort that you don’t find by the dozen. </span><span id="kobo.595.7">Now my task is done. </span><span id="kobo.595.8">I have only to gather the fruit of my efforts. </span><span id="kobo.595.9">It’s your turn to work, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.595.10">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.596.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.596.2">I, for my part, am ready.” </span><span id="kobo.596.3">And he added, thinking of the poor mutilated lad whom he had dazzled with his promises, “Only﻿—for there is an ‘only’﻿—I have not the slightest notion who this Pierre Leduc was, whose place I have magnanimously awarded to that good young man. </span><span id="kobo.596.4">And that’s very annoying.</span><span id="kobo.596.5">﻿ ﻿… For when all is said, there’s nothing to prove to me that Pierre Leduc was not the son of a pork-butcher!</span><span id="kobo.596.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>