<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>III: M. Lenormand Opens His Campaign</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-3" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">III</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><abbr class="calibre17"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.3.1" class="kobospan"> Lenormand Opens His Campaign</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.6.1">“Auguste, show </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.6.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.7.1"> Lenormand in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">The messenger went out and, a few seconds later, announced the chief of the detective-service.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">There were three men in the prime minister’s private room on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.10.2">Place Beauvau</span><span id="kobo.11.1">: </span><span id="kobo.11.2">the famous Valenglay, leader of the radical party for the past thirty years and now president of the council and minister of the interior; the attorney-general, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.12.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.13.1"> Testard; and the prefect of police, Delaume.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">The prefect of police and the attorney-general did not rise from the chairs which they had occupied during their long conversation with the prime minister. </span><span id="kobo.15.2">Valenglay, however, stood up and, pressing the chief detective’s hand, said, in the most cordial tones:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“I have no doubt, my dear Lenormand, that you know the reason why I asked you to come.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“The Kesselbach case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.20.1">The Kesselbach case! </span><span id="kobo.20.2">Not one of us but is able to recall not only the main details of this tragic affair, the tangled skein of which I have set myself to unravel, but even its very smallest incidents, so greatly did the tragedy excite us all during these recent years. </span><span id="kobo.20.3">Nor is there one of us but remembers the extraordinary stir which it created both in and outside France. </span><span id="kobo.20.4">And yet there was one thing that upset the public even more than the three murders committed in such mysterious circumstances, more than the detestable atrocity of that butchery, more than anything else; and that was the reappearance﻿—one might almost say the resurrection﻿—of Arsène Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">Arsène Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.21.2">No one had heard speak of him for over four years, since his incredible, his astounding adventure of the Hollow Needle,</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.21.3">2</span></a><span id="kobo.22.1"> since the day when he had slunk away into the darkness before the eyes of Holmlock Shears and Isidore Beautrelet, carrying on his back the dead body of the woman whom he loved, and followed by his old servant, Victoire.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">From that day onward he had been generally believed to be dead. </span><span id="kobo.24.2">This was the version put about by the police, who, finding no trace of their adversary, were content purely and simply to bury him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">Some, however, believing him to be saved, described him as leading a placid, Philistine existence. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">According to them, he was living with his wife and children, growing his small potatoes; whereas others maintained that, bent down with the weight of sorrow and weary of the vanities of this world, he had sought the seclusion of a Trappist monastery.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">And here he was once more looming large in the public view and resuming his relentless struggle against society! </span><span id="kobo.26.2">Arsène Lupin was Arsène Lupin again, the fanciful, intangible, disconcerting, audacious, genial Arsène Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.26.3">But, this time, a cry of horror arose. </span><span id="kobo.26.4">Arsène Lupin had taken human life! </span><span id="kobo.26.5">And the fierceness, the cruelty, the ruthless cynicism of the crime were so great that, then and there, the legend of the popular hero, of the chivalrous and occasionally sentimental adventurer, made way for a new conception of an inhuman, bloodthirsty, and ferocious monster. </span><span id="kobo.26.6">The crowd now loathed and feared its former idol with more intensity than it had once shown in admiring him for his easy grace and his diverting good-humor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">And, forthwith, the indignation of that frightened crowd turned against the police. </span><span id="kobo.27.2">Formerly, people had laughed. </span><span id="kobo.27.3">They forgave the beaten commissary of police for the comical fashion in which he allowed himself to be beaten. </span><span id="kobo.27.4">But the joke had lasted too long; and, in a burst of revolt and fury, they now called the authorities to account for the unspeakable crimes which these were powerless to prevent.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">In the press, at public meetings, in the streets and even in the tribune of the Chamber of Deputies there was such an explosion of wrath that the government grew alarmed and strove by every possible means to allay the public excitement.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">It so happened that Valenglay, the premier, took a great interest in all these police questions and had often amused himself by going closely into different cases with the chief of the detective-service, whose good qualities and independent character he valued highly. </span><span id="kobo.29.2">He sent for the prefect and the attorney-general to see him in his room, talked to them and then sent for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.29.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.30.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.33.1">“Yes, my dear Lenormand, it’s about the Kesselbach case. </span><span id="kobo.33.2">But, before we discuss it, I must call your attention to a point which more particularly affects and, I may say, annoys </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.33.3">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.34.1"> de Police. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.35.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.36.1"> Delaume, will you explain to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.37.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.38.1"> Lenormand﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Oh, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.40.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.41.1"> Lenormand knows quite well how the matter stands,” said the prefect, in a tone which showed but little goodwill toward his subordinate. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">“We have talked it over already and I have told him what I thought of his improper conduct at the Palace Hotel. </span><span id="kobo.41.3">People are generally indignant.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.43.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.44.1"> Lenormand rose, took a paper from his pocket and laid it on the table.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“What is this?” </span><span id="kobo.46.2">asked Valenglay.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“My resignation, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.47.2">Monsieur le Président du Conseil</span><span id="kobo.48.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">Valenglay gave a jump:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“What! </span><span id="kobo.51.2">Your resignation! </span><span id="kobo.51.3">For a well-meaning remark which </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.51.4">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.52.1"> thinks fit to address to you and to which, for that matter, he attaches no importance whatever﻿—do you, Delaume? </span><span id="kobo.52.2">No importance whatever﻿—and there you go, taking offence! </span><span id="kobo.52.3">You must confess, my dear Lenormand, that you’re devilish touchy! </span><span id="kobo.52.4">Come, put that bit of paper back in your pocket and let’s talk seriously.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">The chief detective sat down again, and Valenglay, silencing the prefect, who made no attempt to conceal his dissatisfaction, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“In two words, Lenormand, the thing is that Lupin’s reappearance upon the scene annoys us. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">The brute has defied us long enough. </span><span id="kobo.55.3">It used to be funny, I confess, and I, for my part, was the first to laugh at it. </span><span id="kobo.55.4">But it’s no longer a question of that. </span><span id="kobo.55.5">It’s a question of murder now. </span><span id="kobo.55.6">We could stand Lupin, as long as he amused the gallery. </span><span id="kobo.55.7">But, when he takes to killing people, no!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“Then what is it that you ask, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.56.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.57.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“What we ask? </span><span id="kobo.59.2">Oh, it’s quite simple! </span><span id="kobo.59.3">First, his arrest and then his head!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“I can promise you his arrest, some day or another, but not his head.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“What! </span><span id="kobo.61.2">If he’s arrested, it means trial for murder, a verdict of guilty, and the scaffold.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“No!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“And why not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“Because Lupin has not committed murder.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“Eh? </span><span id="kobo.65.2">Why, you’re mad, Lenormand! </span><span id="kobo.65.3">The corpses at the Palace Hotel are so many inventions, I suppose! </span><span id="kobo.65.4">And the three murders were never committed!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“Yes, but not by Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">The chief spoke these words very steadily, with impressive calmness and conviction. </span><span id="kobo.67.2">The attorney and the prefect protested.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“I presume, Lenormand,” said Valenglay, “that you do not put forward that theory without serious reasons?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“It is not a theory.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“What proof have you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“There are two, to begin with, two proofs of a moral nature, which I at once placed before </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.71.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.72.1"> and which the newspapers have laid stress upon. </span><span id="kobo.72.2">First and foremost, Lupin does not kill people. </span><span id="kobo.72.3">Next, why should he have killed anybody, seeing that the object which he set out to achieve, the theft, was accomplished and that he had nothing to fear from an adversary who was gagged and bound?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.74.2">But the facts?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">“Facts are worth nothing against reason and logic; and, moreover, the facts also are on my side. </span><span id="kobo.75.2">What would be the meaning of Lupin’s presence in the room in which the cigarette-case was discovered? </span><span id="kobo.75.3">On the other hand, the black clothes which were found and which evidently belonged to the murderer are not in the least of a size to fit Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“You know him, then, do you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“I? </span><span id="kobo.77.2">No. </span><span id="kobo.77.3">But Edwards saw him, Gourel saw him; and the man whom they saw is not the man whom the chambermaid saw, on the servants’ staircase, dragging Chapman by the hand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“Then your idea﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“You mean to say, the truth, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.79.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.80.1"> le Président</span></span><span id="kobo.82.1">. </span><span id="kobo.82.2">Here it is, or, at least, here is the truth as far as I know it. </span><span id="kobo.82.3">On Tuesday, the 16th of April, a man﻿—Lupin﻿—broke into </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.83.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.84.1"> Kesselbach’s room at about two o’clock in the afternoon.</span><span id="kobo.84.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.86.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.87.1"> Lenormand was interrupted by a burst of laughter. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">It came from the prefect of police.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“Let me tell you, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.89.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.90.1"> Lenormand, that you are in rather too great a hurry to state your precise facts. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">It has been shown that, at three o’clock on that day, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.91.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.92.1"> Kesselbach walked into the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.93.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.94.1"> and went down to the safe deposit. </span><span id="kobo.94.2">His signature in the register proves it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.96.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.97.1"> Lenormand waited respectfully until his superior had finished speaking. </span><span id="kobo.97.2">Then, without even troubling to reply directly to the attack, he continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“At about two o’clock in the afternoon, Lupin, assisted by an accomplice, a man named Marco, bound </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.99.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.100.1"> Kesselbach hand and foot, robbed him of all the loose cash which he had upon him and compelled him to reveal the cipher of his safe at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.101.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.102.1">. </span><span id="kobo.102.2">As soon as the secret was told, Marco left. </span><span id="kobo.102.3">He joined another accomplice, who, profiting by a certain resemblance to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.103.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.104.1"> Kesselbach﻿—a resemblance which he accentuated that day by wearing clothes similar to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.105.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.106.1"> Kesselbach’s and putting on a pair of gold spectacles﻿—entered the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.107.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.108.1">, imitated </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.109.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.110.1"> Kesselbach’s signature, emptied the safe of its contents and walked off, accompanied by Marco. </span><span id="kobo.110.2">Marco at once telephoned to Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.110.3">Lupin, as soon as he was sure that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.111.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.112.1"> Kesselbach had not deceived him and that the object of his expedition was attained, went away.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">Valenglay seemed to waver in his mind:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“Yes, yes﻿ ﻿… we’ll admit that.</span><span id="kobo.115.2">﻿ ﻿… But what surprises me is that a man like Lupin should have risked so much for such a paltry profit: </span><span id="kobo.115.3">a few banknotes and the hypothetical contents of a safe.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“Lupin was after more than that. </span><span id="kobo.116.2">He wanted either the morocco envelope which was in the traveling-bag, or else the ebony box which was in the safe. </span><span id="kobo.116.3">He had the ebony box, because he has sent it back empty. </span><span id="kobo.116.4">Therefore, by this time, he knows, or is in a fair way for knowing, the famous scheme which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.116.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.117.1"> Kesselbach was planning, and which he was discussing with his secretary a few minutes before his death.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“What was the scheme?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“I don’t exactly know. </span><span id="kobo.120.2">The manager of Barbareux’s agency, to whom he had opened his mind about it, has told me that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.120.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.121.1"> Kesselbach was looking for a man who went by the name of Pierre Leduc, a man who had lost caste, it appears. </span><span id="kobo.121.2">Why and how the discovery of this person was connected with the success of his scheme, I am unable to say.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Very well,” said Valenglay. </span><span id="kobo.123.2">“So much for Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.123.3">His part is played. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.123.4">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.124.1"> Kesselbach is bound hand and foot, robbed, but alive!</span><span id="kobo.124.2">﻿ ﻿… What happens up to the time when he is found dead?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“Nothing, for several hours, nothing until night. </span><span id="kobo.126.2">But, during the night, someone made his way in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“How?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">“Through room 420, one of the rooms reserved by </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.128.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.129.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">The person in question evidently possessed a false key.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“But,” exclaimed the prefect of police, “all the doors between that room and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.131.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.132.1"> Kesselbach’s flat were bolted; and there were five of them!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“There was always the balcony.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“The balcony!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“Yes; the balcony runs along the whole floor, on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.136.2">Rue de Judée</span><span id="kobo.137.1"> side.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“And what about the spaces in between?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">“An active man can step across them. </span><span id="kobo.140.2">Our man did. </span><span id="kobo.140.3">I have found marks.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“But all the windows of the suite were shut; and it was ascertained, after the crime, that they were still shut.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“All except one, the secretary’s window, Chapman’s, which was only pushed to. </span><span id="kobo.142.2">I tried it myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">This time the prime minister seemed a little shaken, so logical did </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.143.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.144.1"> Lenormand’s version seem, so precise and supported by such sound facts. </span><span id="kobo.144.2">He asked, with growing interest:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“But what was the man’s object in coming?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“I don’t know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Ah, you don’t know!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Any more than I know his name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“But why did he kill </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.150.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.151.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“I don’t know. </span><span id="kobo.153.2">This all remains a mystery. </span><span id="kobo.153.3">The utmost that we have the right to suppose is that he did not come with the intention of killing, but with the intention, he too, of taking the documents contained in the morocco notecase and the ebony box; and that, finding himself by accident in the presence of the enemy reduced to a state of helplessness, he killed him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">Valenglay muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Yes, strictly speaking, that is possible.</span><span id="kobo.155.2">﻿ ﻿… And, according to you, did he find the documents?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“He did not find the box, because it was not there; but he found the black morocco notecase. </span><span id="kobo.156.2">So that Lupin and﻿ ﻿… the other are in the same position. </span><span id="kobo.156.3">Each knows as much as the other about the Kesselbach scheme.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“That means,” remarked the premier, “that they will fight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“Exactly. </span><span id="kobo.158.2">And the fight has already begun. </span><span id="kobo.158.3">The murderer, finding a card of Arsène Lupin’s, pinned it to the corpse. </span><span id="kobo.158.4">All the appearances would thus be against Arsène Lupin﻿ ﻿… therefore, Arsène Lupin would be the murderer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“True﻿ ﻿… true,” said Valenglay. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">“The calculation seemed pretty accurate.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“And the stratagem would have succeeded,” continued </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.160.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.161.1"> Lenormand, “if in consequence of another and a less favorable accident, the murderer had not, either in coming or going, dropped his cigarette-case in room 420, and if the floor-waiter, Gustave Beudot, had not picked it up. </span><span id="kobo.161.2">From that moment, knowing himself to be discovered, or on the point of being discovered﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“How did he know it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“How? </span><span id="kobo.164.2">Why, through </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.164.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.165.1"> Formerie, the examining-magistrate, himself! </span><span id="kobo.165.2">The investigation took place with open doors. </span><span id="kobo.165.3">It is certain that the murderer was concealed among the people, members of the hotel staff and journalists, who were present when Gustave Beudot was giving his evidence; and when the magistrate sent Gustave Beudot to his attic to fetch the cigarette-case, the man followed and struck the blow. </span><span id="kobo.165.4">Second victim!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">No one protested now. </span><span id="kobo.167.2">The tragedy was being reconstructed before their eyes with a realism and a probable accuracy which were equally striking.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“And the third victim?” </span><span id="kobo.168.2">asked Valenglay.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“He himself gave the ruffian his opportunity. </span><span id="kobo.169.2">When Beudot did not return, Chapman, curious to see the cigarette-case for himself, went upstairs with the manager of the hotel. </span><span id="kobo.169.3">He was surprised by the murderer, dragged away by him, taken to one of the bedrooms and murdered in his turn.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“But why did he allow himself to be dragged away like that and to be led by a man whom he knew to be the murderer of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.170.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.171.1"> Kesselbach and of Gustave Beudot?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“I don’t know, any more than I know the room in which the crime was committed, or the really miraculous way in which the criminal escaped.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Something has been said about two blue labels.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“Yes, one was found on the box which Lupin sent back; and the other was found by me and doubtless came from the morocco notecase stolen by the murderer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“I don’t think that they mean anything. </span><span id="kobo.177.2">What does mean something is the number 813, which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.177.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.178.1"> Kesselbach wrote on each of them. </span><span id="kobo.178.2">His handwriting has been recognized.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“And that number 813?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“It’s a mystery.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“Then?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“I can only reply again that I don’t know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“Have you no suspicions?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“None at all. </span><span id="kobo.185.2">Two of my men are occupying one of the rooms in the Palace Hotel, on the floor where Chapman’s body was found. </span><span id="kobo.185.3">I have had all the people in the hotel watched by these two men. </span><span id="kobo.185.4">The criminal is not one of those who have left.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“Did no one telephone while the murders were being committed?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“Yes, someone telephoned from the outside to Major Parbury, one of the four persons who occupied rooms on the first-floor passage.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“And this Major Parbury?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“I am having him watched by my men. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">So far, nothing has been discovered against him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“And in which direction do you intend to seek?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Oh, in a very limited direction. </span><span id="kobo.191.2">In my opinion, the murderer must be numbered among the friends or connections of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.191.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.192.1"> and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.193.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.194.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.194.2">He followed their scent, knew their habits, the reason of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.195.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.196.1"> Kesselbach’s presence in Paris; and he at least suspected the importance of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.197.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.198.1"> Kesselbach’s plans.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">“Then he was not a professional criminal?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">“No, no, certainly not! </span><span id="kobo.201.2">The murder was committed with extraordinary cleverness and daring, but it was due to circumstances. </span><span id="kobo.201.3">I repeat, we shall have to look among the people forming the immediate circle of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.201.4">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.202.1"> and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.203.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.204.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">And the proof is that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.205.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.206.1"> Kesselbach’s murderer killed Gustave Beudot for the sole reason that the waiter had the cigarette-case in his possession; and Chapman for the sole reason that the secretary knew of its existence. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">Remember Chapman’s excitement: </span><span id="kobo.206.3">at the mere description of the cigarette-case, Chapman received a sudden insight into the tragedy. </span><span id="kobo.206.4">If he had seen the cigarette-case, we should have been fully informed. </span><span id="kobo.206.5">The man, whoever he may be, was well aware of that: </span><span id="kobo.206.6">and he put an end to Chapman. </span><span id="kobo.206.7">And we know nothing, nothing but the initials L and M.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">He reflected for a moment and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“There is another proof, which forms an answer to one of your questions, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.209.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.210.1">: </span><span id="kobo.210.2">Do you believe that Chapman would have accompanied that man along the passages and staircases of the hotel if he did not already know him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">The facts were accumulating. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">The truth or, at least, the probable truth was gaining strength. </span><span id="kobo.212.3">Many of the points at issue, the most interesting, perhaps, remained obscure. </span><span id="kobo.212.4">But what a light had been thrown upon the subject! </span><span id="kobo.212.5">Short of the motives that inspired them, how clearly Lenormand’s hearers now perceived the sequence of acts performed on that tragic morning!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">There was a pause. </span><span id="kobo.213.2">Everyone was thinking, seeking for arguments, for objections. </span><span id="kobo.213.3">At last, Valenglay exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“My dear Lenormand, this is all quite excellent. </span><span id="kobo.214.2">You have convinced me.</span><span id="kobo.214.3">﻿ ﻿… But, taking one thing with another, we are no further than we were.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“What do you mean?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“What I say. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">The object of our meeting is not to clear up a portion of the mystery, which, one day, I am sure, you will clear up altogether, but to satisfy the public demand as fully as we possibly can. </span><span id="kobo.216.3">Now whether the murderer is Lupin or another; whether there are two criminals, or three, or only one: </span><span id="kobo.216.4">all this gives us neither the criminal’s name nor his arrest. </span><span id="kobo.216.5">And the public continues under the disastrous impression that the law is powerless.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">“What can I do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“Give the public the definite satisfaction which it demands.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">“But it seems to me that this explanation ought to be enough.</span><span id="kobo.219.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">“Words! </span><span id="kobo.220.2">The public wants deeds! </span><span id="kobo.220.3">One thing alone will satisfy it: </span><span id="kobo.220.4">an arrest.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“Hang it all! </span><span id="kobo.221.2">Hang it all! </span><span id="kobo.221.3">We can’t arrest the first person that comes along!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“Even that would be better than arresting nobody,” said Valenglay, with a laugh. </span><span id="kobo.222.2">“Come, have a good look round! </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Are you sure of Edwards, Kesselbach’s servant?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“Absolutely sure. </span><span id="kobo.223.2">Besides﻿ ﻿… No, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.223.3">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.224.1">, it would be dangerous and ridiculous; and I am sure that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.225.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.226.1"> Attorney-General himself﻿ ﻿… There are only two people whom we have the right to arrest: </span><span id="kobo.226.2">the murderer﻿—I don’t know who he is﻿—and Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“There is no question of arresting Arsène Lupin, or, at least, it requires time, a whole series of measures, which I have not yet had the leisure to contrive, because I looked upon Lupin as settled down﻿ ﻿… or dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">Valenglay stamped his foot with the impatience of a man who likes to see his wishes realized on the spot:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“And yet﻿ ﻿… and yet, my dear Lenormand, something must be done﻿ ﻿… if only for your own sake. </span><span id="kobo.231.2">You know as well as I do that you have powerful enemies﻿ ﻿… and that, if I were not there﻿ ﻿… In short, Lenormand, you can’t be allowed to get out of it like this. </span><span id="kobo.231.3">What are you doing about the accomplices? </span><span id="kobo.231.4">There are others besides Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.231.5">There is Marco; and there’s the rogue who impersonated </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.231.6">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.232.1"> Kesselbach in order to visit the cellars of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.233.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.234.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“Would you be satisfied if you got him, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.236.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.237.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“Would I be satisfied? </span><span id="kobo.239.2">Heavens alive, I should think I would!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“Well, give me seven days.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Seven days! </span><span id="kobo.241.2">Why, it’s not a question of days, my dear Lenormand! </span><span id="kobo.241.3">It’s a question of hours!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">“How many will you give me, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.242.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.243.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">Valenglay took out his watch and chuckled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“I will give you ten minutes, my dear Lenormand!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">The chief took out his, and emphasizing each syllable, said calmly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“That is four minutes more than I want, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.248.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.249.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">Valenglay looked at him in amazement.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">“Four minutes more than you want? </span><span id="kobo.252.2">What do you mean by that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“I mean, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.253.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.254.1">, that the ten minutes which you allow me are superfluous. </span><span id="kobo.254.2">I want six, and not one minute more.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“Oh, but look here, Lenormand﻿ ﻿… if you imagine that this is the time for joking﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">The chief detective went to the window and beckoned to two men who were walking round the courtyard.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">Then he returned:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.259.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.260.1"> Attorney-General, would you have the kindness to sign a warrant for the arrest of Auguste Maximin Philippe Daileron, aged forty-seven? </span><span id="kobo.260.2">You might leave the profession open.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">He went to the door:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Come in, Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.263.2">You, too, Dieuzy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">Gourel entered, accompanied by Inspector Dieuzy.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“Have you the handcuffs, Gourel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“Yes, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.267.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.268.1"> Lenormand went up to Valenglay:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.270.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.271.1">, everything is ready. </span><span id="kobo.271.2">But I entreat you most urgently to forego this arrest. </span><span id="kobo.271.3">It upsets all my plans; it may render them abortive; and, for the sake of what, after all, is a very trifling satisfaction, it exposes us to the risk of jeopardizing the whole business.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.273.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.274.1"> Lenormand, let me remark that you have only eighty seconds left.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">The chief suppressed a gesture of annoyance, strode across the room and, leaning on his stick, sat down angrily, as though he had decided not to speak. </span><span id="kobo.276.2">Then, suddenly making up his mind:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.277.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.278.1">, the first person who enters this room will be the man whose arrest you asked for﻿ ﻿… against my wish, as I insist on pointing out to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“Fifteen seconds, Lenormand!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“Gourel﻿ ﻿… Dieuzy﻿ ﻿… the first person, do you understand?</span><span id="kobo.281.2">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.281.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.282.1"> Attorney, have you signed the warrant?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“Ten seconds, Lenormand!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.285.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.286.1">, would you be so good as to ring the bell?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">Valenglay rang.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">The messenger appeared in the doorway and waited.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">Valenglay turned to the chief:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">“Well, Lenormand, he’s waiting for your orders. </span><span id="kobo.291.2">Whom is he to show in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“No one.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">“But the rogue whose arrest you promised us? </span><span id="kobo.293.2">The six minutes are more than past.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“Yes, but the rogue is here!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“Here? </span><span id="kobo.295.2">I don’t understand. </span><span id="kobo.295.3">No one has entered the room!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“I beg your pardon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Oh, I say.</span><span id="kobo.297.2">﻿ ﻿… Look here, Lenormand, you’re making fun of us. </span><span id="kobo.297.3">I tell you again that no one has entered the room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“There were six of us in this room, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.298.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.299.1">; there are seven now. </span><span id="kobo.299.2">Consequently, someone has entered the room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">Valenglay started:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">“Eh! </span><span id="kobo.302.2">But this is madness!</span><span id="kobo.302.3">﻿ ﻿… What! </span><span id="kobo.302.4">You mean to say﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">The two detectives had slipped between the messenger and the door. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.303.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.304.1"> Lenormand walked up to the messenger, clapped his hand on his shoulder and, in a loud voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“In the name of the law, Auguste Maximin Philippe Daileron, chief messenger at the Ministry of the Interior, I arrest you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">Valenglay burst out laughing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">“Oh, what a joke! </span><span id="kobo.308.2">What a joke! </span><span id="kobo.308.3">That infernal Lenormand! </span><span id="kobo.308.4">Of all the first-rate notions! </span><span id="kobo.308.5">Well done, Lenormand! </span><span id="kobo.308.6">It’s long since I enjoyed so good a laugh.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.309.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.310.1"> Lenormand turned to the attorney-general:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.312.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.313.1"> Attorney, you won’t forget to fill in Master Daileron’s profession on the warrant, will you? </span><span id="kobo.313.2">Chief messenger at the Ministry of the Interior.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“Oh, good!</span><span id="kobo.315.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, capital!</span><span id="kobo.315.3">﻿ ﻿… Chief messenger at the Ministry of the Interior!” </span><span id="kobo.315.4">spluttered Valenglay, holding his sides. </span><span id="kobo.315.5">“Oh, this wonderful Lenormand gets hold of ideas that would never occur to anybody else! </span><span id="kobo.315.6">The public is clamoring for an arrest.</span><span id="kobo.315.7">﻿ ﻿… Whoosh, he flings at its head my chief messenger﻿ ﻿… Auguste﻿ ﻿… the model servant! </span><span id="kobo.315.8">Well, Lenormand, my dear fellow, I knew you had a certain gift of imagination, but I never suspected that it would go so far as this! </span><span id="kobo.315.9">The impertinence of it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">From the commencement of this scene, Auguste had not stirred a limb and seemed to understand nothing of what was going on around him. </span><span id="kobo.316.2">His face, the typical face of a good, loyal, faithful serving-man, seemed absolutely bewildered. </span><span id="kobo.316.3">He looked at the gentlemen turn and turn about, with a visible effort to catch the meaning of their words.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.317.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.318.1"> Lenormand said a few words to Gourel, who went out. </span><span id="kobo.318.2">Then, going up to Auguste and speaking with great decision, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“There’s no way out of it. </span><span id="kobo.320.2">You’re caught. </span><span id="kobo.320.3">The best thing to do, when the game is lost, is to throw down your cards. </span><span id="kobo.320.4">What were you doing on Tuesday?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“I? </span><span id="kobo.321.2">Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.321.3">I was here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“You lie. </span><span id="kobo.322.2">You were off duty. </span><span id="kobo.322.3">You went out for the day.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">“Oh, yes﻿ ﻿… I remember﻿ ﻿… I had a friend to see me from the country.</span><span id="kobo.323.2">﻿ ﻿… We went for a walk in the Bois.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">“Your friend’s name was Marco. </span><span id="kobo.324.2">And you went for a walk in the cellars of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.324.3">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.325.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“I? </span><span id="kobo.327.2">What an idea!</span><span id="kobo.327.3">﻿ ﻿… Marco!</span><span id="kobo.327.4">﻿ ﻿… I don’t know anyone by that name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">“And these? </span><span id="kobo.328.2">Do you know these?” </span><span id="kobo.328.3">cried the chief, thrusting a pair of gold-rimmed spectacles under his nose.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“No﻿ ﻿… certainly not.</span><span id="kobo.329.2">﻿ ﻿… I don’t wear spectacles.</span><span id="kobo.329.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">“Yes, you do; you wear them when you go to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.330.2">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.331.1"> and when you pass yourself off as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.332.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.333.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.333.2">These come from your room, the room which you occupy, under the name of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.334.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.335.1"> Jérôme, at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.336.1">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.337.1"> 50 </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.338.1">Rue du Colisee</span><span id="kobo.339.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“My room? </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.341.2">My</span></em><span id="kobo.342.1"> room? </span><span id="kobo.342.2">I sleep here, at the office.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">“But you change your clothes over there, to play your parts in Lupin’s gang.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">A blow in the chest made him stagger back. </span><span id="kobo.345.2">Auguste reached the window at a bound, climbed over the balcony and jumped into the courtyard.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">“Dash it all!” </span><span id="kobo.346.2">shouted Valenglay. </span><span id="kobo.346.3">“The scoundrel!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">He rang the bell, ran to the window, wanted to call out. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.347.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.348.1"> Lenormand, with the greatest calm, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“Don’t excite yourself, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.350.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.351.1">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">“But that blackguard of an Auguste﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“One second, please.</span><span id="kobo.354.2">﻿ ﻿… I foresaw this ending﻿ ﻿… in fact, I allowed for it.</span><span id="kobo.354.3">﻿ ﻿… It’s the best confession we could have.</span><span id="kobo.354.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.355.1">Yielding in the presence of this coolness, Valenglay resumed his seat. </span><span id="kobo.355.2">In a moment, Gourel entered, with his hand on the collar of Master Auguste Maximin Philippe Daileron, alias Jérôme, chief messenger at the Ministry of the Interior.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">“Bring him, Gourel!” </span><span id="kobo.356.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.356.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.357.1"> Lenormand, as who should say, “Fetch it! </span><span id="kobo.357.2">Bring it!” </span><span id="kobo.357.3">to a good retriever carrying the game in its jaws. </span><span id="kobo.357.4">“Did he come quietly?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“He bit me a little, but I held tight,” replied the sergeant, showing his huge, sinewy hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“Very well, Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">And now take this chap off to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.360.3">Dépôt</span><span id="kobo.361.1"> in a cab. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Goodbye for the present, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.362.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.363.1"> Jérôme.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">Valenglay was immensely amused. </span><span id="kobo.365.2">He rubbed his hands and laughed. </span><span id="kobo.365.3">The idea that his chief messenger was one of Lupin’s accomplices struck him as a most delightfully ludicrous thing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“Well done, my dear Lenormand; this is wonderful! </span><span id="kobo.366.2">But how on earth did you manage it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">“Oh, in the simplest possible fashion. </span><span id="kobo.367.2">I knew that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.367.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.368.1"> Kesselbach was employing the Barbareux agency and that Lupin had called on him, pretending to come from the agency. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">I hunted in that direction and discovered that, when the indiscretion was committed to the prejudice of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.369.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.370.1"> Kesselbach and of Barbareux, it could only have been to the advantage of one Jérôme, a friend of one of the clerks at the agency. </span><span id="kobo.370.2">If you had not ordered me to hustle things, I should have watched the messenger and caught Marco and then Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“You’ll catch them, Lenormand, you’ll catch them, I assure you. </span><span id="kobo.372.2">And we shall be assisting at the most exciting spectacle in the world: </span><span id="kobo.372.3">the struggle between Lupin and yourself. </span><span id="kobo.372.4">I shall bet on you.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.374.1">The next morning the newspapers published the following letter:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header class="calibre18">
					<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.375.1">“Open Letter to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.375.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.376.1"> Lenormand, Chief of the Detective-service.</span></p>
				</header>
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.379.1">“All my congratulations, dear sir and dear friend, on your arrest of Jérôme the messenger. </span><span id="kobo.379.2">It was a smart piece of work, well executed and worthy of you.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“All my compliments, also, on the ingenious manner in which you proved to the prime minister that I was not </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.380.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.381.1"> Kesselbach’s murderer. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">Your demonstration was clear, logical, irrefutable and, what is more, truthful. </span><span id="kobo.381.3">As you know, I do not kill people. </span><span id="kobo.381.4">Thank you for proving it on this occasion. </span><span id="kobo.381.5">The esteem of my contemporaries and of yourself, dear sir and dear friend, are indispensable to my happiness.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">“In return, allow me to assist you in the pursuit of the monstrous assassin and to give you a hand with the Kesselbach case, a very interesting case, believe me: </span><span id="kobo.383.2">so interesting and so worthy of my attention that I have determined to issue from the retirement in which I have been living for the past four years, between my books and my good dog Sherlock, to beat all my comrades to arms and to throw myself once more into the fray.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“What unexpected turns life sometimes takes! </span><span id="kobo.384.2">Here am I, your fellow-worker! </span><span id="kobo.384.3">Let me assure you, dear sir and dear friend, that I congratulate myself upon it, and that I appreciate this favor of destiny at its true value.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.385.1">“Arsène Lupin.</span></p>
					<div epub:type="z3998:postscript" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.386.1">“</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.386.2">P.</span><span id="kobo.386.3">S.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.387.1">﻿—One word more, of which I feel sure that you will approve. </span><span id="kobo.387.2">As it is not right and proper that a gentleman who has had the glorious privilege of fighting under my banner should languish on the straw of your prisons, I feel it my duty to give you fair warning that, in five weeks’ time, on Friday, the 31st of May, I shall set at liberty Master Jérôme, promoted by me to the rank of chief messenger at the Ministry of the Interior. </span><span id="kobo.387.3">Don’t forget the date: </span><span id="kobo.387.4">Friday, the 31st of May.</span></p>
						<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature1" epub:type="z3998:signature"><span id="kobo.389.1">“</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.389.2">A. </span><span id="kobo.389.3">L.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.390.1">”</span></p>
					</div>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>