<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XI: Charlemagne</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-11" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XI</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">Charlemagne</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">“Silence!” </span><span id="kobo.4.2">said the stranger, sharply. </span><span id="kobo.4.3">“Don’t use that word.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">“Then what shall I call Your﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">“Call me nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">They were both silent; and this moment of respite was not one of those which go before the struggle of two adversaries ready for the fray. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">The stranger strode to and fro with the air of a master accustomed to command and to be obeyed. </span><span id="kobo.7.3">Lupin stood motionless. </span><span id="kobo.7.4">He had abandoned his usual provocative attitude and his sarcastic smile. </span><span id="kobo.7.5">He waited, gravely and deferentially. </span><span id="kobo.7.6">But, down in the depths of his being, he revelled, eagerly, madly, in the marvellous situation in which he found himself placed: </span><span id="kobo.7.7">here, in his cell, he, a prisoner; he, the adventurer; he, the swindler, the burglar; he, Arsène Lupin﻿ ﻿… face to face with that demigod of the modern world, that formidable entity, the heir of Caesar and of Charlemagne.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">He was intoxicated for a moment with the sense of his own power. </span><span id="kobo.8.2">The tears came to his eyes when he thought of his triumph.</span><span id="kobo.8.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">The stranger stood still.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">And at once, with the very first sentence, they came to the immediate point:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“Tomorrow is the 22nd of August. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">The letters are to be published tomorrow, are they not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“Tonight, in two hours from now, my friends are to hand in to the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.12.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.13.1">, not the letters themselves, but an exact list of the letters, with the Grand-duke Hermann’s annotations.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“That list shall not be handed in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“It shall not be.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“You will give it to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“It shall be placed in the hands of Your﻿ ﻿… in your hands.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“Likewise, all the letters?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“Likewise, all the letters.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“Without any of them being photographed?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“Without any of them being photographed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">The stranger spoke in a very calm voice, containing not the least accent of entreaty nor the least inflection of authority. </span><span id="kobo.23.2">He neither ordered nor requested; he stated the inevitable actions of Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.23.3">Things would happen as he said. </span><span id="kobo.23.4">And they would happen, whatever Arsène Lupin’s demands should be, at whatever price he might value the performance of those actions. </span><span id="kobo.23.5">The conditions were accepted beforehand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“By Jove,” said Lupin to himself, “that’s jolly clever of him! </span><span id="kobo.24.2">If he leaves it to my generosity, I am a ruined man!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">The very way in which the conversation opened, the frankness of the words employed, the charm of voice and manner all pleased him infinitely.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">He pulled himself together, lest he should relent and abandon all the advantages which he had conquered so fiercely.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">And the stranger continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">“Have you read the letters?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">“But someone you know has read them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">“In that case﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">“I have the grand-duke’s list and his notes. </span><span id="kobo.33.2">Moreover, I know the hiding-place where he put all his papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“Why did you not take them before this?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">“I did not know the secret of the hiding-place until I came here. </span><span id="kobo.35.2">My friends are on the way there now.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">“The castle is guarded. </span><span id="kobo.36.2">It is occupied by two hundred of my most trusty men.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">“Ten thousand would not be sufficient.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">After a minute’s reflection, the visitor asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“How do you know the secret?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“I guessed it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">“But you had other elements of information which the papers did not publish?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“No, none at all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“And yet I had the castle searched for four days.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“Holmlock Shears looked in the wrong place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“Ah!” </span><span id="kobo.45.2">said the stranger to himself. </span><span id="kobo.45.3">“It’s an odd thing, an odd thing!</span><span id="kobo.45.4">﻿ ﻿…” And, to Lupin, “You are sure that your supposition is correct?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“It is not a supposition: </span><span id="kobo.46.2">it is a certainty.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“So much the better,” muttered the visitor. </span><span id="kobo.47.2">“There will be no rest until those papers cease to exist.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">And, placing himself in front of Arsène Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“How much?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“What?” </span><span id="kobo.50.2">said Lupin, taken aback.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“How much for the papers? </span><span id="kobo.51.2">How much do you ask to reveal the secret?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">He waited for Lupin to name a figure. </span><span id="kobo.52.2">He suggested one himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“Fifty thousand?</span><span id="kobo.53.2">﻿ ﻿… A hundred thousand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">And, when Lupin did not reply, he said, with a little hesitation:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“More? </span><span id="kobo.55.2">Two hundred thousand? </span><span id="kobo.55.3">Very well! </span><span id="kobo.55.4">I agree.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">Lupin smiled and, in a low voice, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“It is a handsome figure. </span><span id="kobo.57.2">But is it not likely that some sovereign, let us say, the King of England, would give as much as a million? </span><span id="kobo.57.3">In all sincerity?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“I believe so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“And that those letters are priceless to the Emperor, that they are worth two million quite as easily as two hundred thousand francs﻿ ﻿… three million as easily as two?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“I think so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“And, if necessary, the Emperor would give that three million francs?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“Then it will not be difficult to come to an arrangement.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“On that basis?” </span><span id="kobo.64.2">cried the stranger, not without some alarm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">Lupin smiled again:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“On that basis, no.</span><span id="kobo.66.2">﻿ ﻿… I am not looking for money. </span><span id="kobo.66.3">I want something else, something that is worth more to me than any number of millions.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“What is that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“My liberty.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“What! </span><span id="kobo.69.2">Your liberty.</span><span id="kobo.69.3">﻿ ﻿… But I can do nothing.</span><span id="kobo.69.4">﻿ ﻿… That concerns your country﻿ ﻿… the law.</span><span id="kobo.69.5">﻿ ﻿… I have no power.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">Lupin went up to him and, lowering his voice still more:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“You have every power, Sire.</span><span id="kobo.71.2">﻿ ﻿… My liberty is not such an exceptional event that they are likely to refuse you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“Then I should have to ask for it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“Of whom?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">“Of Valenglay, the prime minister.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“But </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.76.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.77.1"> Valenglay himself can do no more than I.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“He can open the doors of this prison for me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“It would cause a public outcry.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“When I say, open﻿ ﻿… half-open would be enough﻿ ﻿… We should counterfeit an escape.</span><span id="kobo.81.2">﻿ ﻿… The public so thoroughly expects it that it would not so much as ask for an explanation.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“Very well﻿ ﻿… but </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.82.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.83.1"> Valenglay will never consent.</span><span id="kobo.83.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“He will consent.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“Because you will express the wish.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“My wishes are not commands﻿ ﻿… to him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“No﻿ ﻿… but an opportunity of making himself agreeable to the Emperor by fulfilling them. </span><span id="kobo.89.2">And Valenglay is too shrewd a politician.</span><span id="kobo.89.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">“Nonsense! </span><span id="kobo.90.2">Do you imagine that the French government will commit so illegal an act for the sole pleasure of making itself agreeable to me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“That pleasure will not be the sole one.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“What will be the other?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“The pleasure of serving France by accepting the proposal which will accompany the request for my release.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“I am to make a proposal? </span><span id="kobo.94.2">I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">“What proposal?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">“I do not know, but it seems to me that there is always a favorable ground on which to come to an understanding﻿ ﻿… there are possibilities of agreement.</span><span id="kobo.97.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">The stranger looked at him, without grasping his meaning. </span><span id="kobo.98.2">Lupin leant forward and, as though seeking his words, as though putting an imaginary case, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Let me suppose that two great countries are divided by some insignificant question﻿ ﻿… that they have different points of view on a matter of secondary importance﻿ ﻿… a colonial matter, for instance, in which their self-esteem is at stake rather than their interest.</span><span id="kobo.99.2">﻿ ﻿… Is it inconceivable that the ruler of one of those countries might come of his own accord to treat this matter in a new spirit of conciliation﻿ ﻿… and give the necessary instructions﻿ ﻿… so that﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“So that I might leave Morocco to France?” </span><span id="kobo.100.2">said the stranger, with a burst of laughter.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">The idea which Lupin was suggesting struck him as the most comical thing that he had ever heard; and he laughed heartily. </span><span id="kobo.101.2">The disparity was so great between the object aimed at and the means proposed!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“Of course, of course!” </span><span id="kobo.102.2">he resumed, with a vain attempt to recover his seriousness. </span><span id="kobo.102.3">“Of course, it’s a very original idea: </span><span id="kobo.102.4">the whole of modern politics upset so that Arsène Lupin may be free!</span><span id="kobo.102.5">﻿ ﻿… The plans of the Empire destroyed so that Arsène Lupin may continue his exploits!</span><span id="kobo.102.6">﻿ ﻿… Why not ask me for Alsace and Lorraine at once?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“I did think of it, Sire,” replied Lupin, calmly. </span><span id="kobo.103.2">The stranger’s merriment increased:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">“Splendid! </span><span id="kobo.104.2">And you let me off?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“This time, yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">Lupin had crossed his arms. </span><span id="kobo.106.2">He, too, was amusing himself by exaggerating the part which he was playing; and he continued, with affected seriousness:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“A series of circumstances might one day arise which would put in my hands the power of </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.107.2">demanding</span></em><span id="kobo.108.1"> and </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.109.1">obtaining</span></em><span id="kobo.110.1"> that restitution. </span><span id="kobo.110.2">When that day comes, I shall certainly not fail to do so. </span><span id="kobo.110.3">For the moment, the weapons at my disposal oblige me to be more modest. </span><span id="kobo.110.4">Peace in Morocco will satisfy me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Just that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“Just that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Morocco against your liberty!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“Nothing more﻿ ﻿… or, rather﻿—for we must not lose sight entirely of the main object of this conversation﻿—or, rather, a little good will on the part of one of the countries in question﻿ ﻿… and, in exchange, the surrender of the letters which are in my power.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“Those letters, those letters!” </span><span id="kobo.116.2">muttered the stranger irritably. </span><span id="kobo.116.3">“After all, perhaps they are not so valuable.</span><span id="kobo.116.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“There are some in your own hand, Sire; and you considered them valuable enough to come to this cell.</span><span id="kobo.117.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Well, what does it matter?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“But there are others of which you do not know the authorship and about which I can give you a few particulars.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“Oh, indeed!” </span><span id="kobo.120.2">said the stranger, rather anxiously.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">Lupin hesitated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“Speak, speak plainly,” said the stranger. </span><span id="kobo.122.2">“Say what you have in your mind.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">In the profound silence of the cell, Lupin declared, with a certain solemnity:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“Twenty years ago a draft treaty was prepared between Germany, Great Britain, and France.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“That’s not true! </span><span id="kobo.125.2">It’s impossible! </span><span id="kobo.125.3">Who could have done such a thing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“The Emperor’s father and the Queen of England, his grandmother, both acting under the influence of the Empress Frederick.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“Impossible! </span><span id="kobo.127.2">I repeat, it is impossible!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">“The correspondence is in the hiding-place at Veldenz Castle; and I alone know the secret of the hiding-place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">The stranger walked up and down with an agitated step. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">Then he stopped short:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“Is the text of the treaty included in that correspondence?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Yes, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">It is in your father’s own hand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“And what does it say?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">“By that treaty, France and Great Britain granted and promised Germany an immense colonial empire, the empire which she does not at present possess and which has become a necessity to her, in these times, to ensure her greatness.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“And what did England demand as a set-off against that empire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“The limitation of the German fleet.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“And France?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“Alsace and Lorraine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">The Emperor leant against the table in silent thought. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">Lupin continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Everything was ready. </span><span id="kobo.139.2">The cabinets of Paris and London had been sounded and had consented. </span><span id="kobo.139.3">The thing was practically done. </span><span id="kobo.139.4">The great treaty of alliance was on the point of being concluded. </span><span id="kobo.139.5">It would have laid the foundations of a definite and universal peace. </span><span id="kobo.139.6">The death of your father destroyed that sublime dream. </span><span id="kobo.139.7">But I ask Your Imperial Majesty, what will your people think, what will the world think, when it knows that Frederick </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.139.8">III</span><span id="kobo.140.1">, one of the heroes of 1870, a German, a pure and loyal German, respected by all, generally admired for his nobility of character, agreed to the restitution of Alsace-Lorraine and therefore considered that restitution just?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">He was silent for an instant leaving the problem to fix itself in its precise terms before the Emperor’s conscience, before his conscience as a man, a son and a sovereign. </span><span id="kobo.142.2">Then he concluded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“Your Imperial Majesty yourself must know whether you wish or do not wish history to record the existence of that treaty. </span><span id="kobo.143.2">As for me, Sire, you can see that my humble personality counts for very little in the discussion.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">A long pause followed upon Lupin’s words. </span><span id="kobo.144.2">He waited, with his soul torn with anguish. </span><span id="kobo.144.3">His whole destiny was at stake, in this minute which he had conceived and, in a manner, produced with such effort and such stubbornness, an historic minute, born of his brain, in which “his humble personality,” for all that he might say, weighed heavily upon the fate of empires and the peace of the world.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">Opposite him, in the shadow, Caesar stood meditating.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">What answer would he make? </span><span id="kobo.146.2">What solution would he give to the problem?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">He walked across the cell for a few moments, which to Lupin seemed interminable. </span><span id="kobo.147.2">Then he stopped and asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Are there any other conditions?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Yes, Sire, but they are insignificant.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Name them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“I have found the son of the Grand-duke of Zweibrucken-Veldenz. </span><span id="kobo.151.2">The grand-duchy must be restored to him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">“Anything else?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“He loves a young girl, who loves him in her turn. </span><span id="kobo.153.2">She is the fairest and the most virtuous of her sex. </span><span id="kobo.153.3">He must marry her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">“Anything else?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“That is all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“There is nothing more?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">Your majesty need only have this letter delivered to the editor of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.157.3">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.158.1">, who will then destroy, unread, the article which he may now receive at any moment.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">Lupin held out the letter, with a heavy heart and a trembling hand. </span><span id="kobo.160.2">If the Emperor took it, that would be a sign of his acceptance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">The Emperor hesitated and then, with an abrupt movement, took the letter, put on his hat, wrapped his cloak round him and walked out without a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">Lupin remained for a few seconds, staggering, as though dazed.</span><span id="kobo.162.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">Then, suddenly, he fell into his chair, shouting with joy and pride.</span><span id="kobo.163.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.165.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.165.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.166.1">, I am sorry to say goodbye to you today.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Why, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.168.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.169.1"> Lupin, are you thinking of leaving us?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“With the greatest reluctance, I assure you, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.171.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.172.1">. </span><span id="kobo.172.2">Our relations have been so very pleasant and cordial! </span><span id="kobo.172.3">But all good things must come to an end. </span><span id="kobo.172.4">My cure at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.173.1">Santé</span><span id="kobo.174.1"> Palace is finished. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">Other duties call me. </span><span id="kobo.174.3">I have resolved to make my escape tonight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“Then I wish you good luck, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.176.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.177.1"> Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">“A thousand thanks, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.179.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.180.1"> le Juge d’Instruction</span></span><span id="kobo.182.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">Arsène Lupin waited patiently for the hour of his escape, not without asking himself how it would be contrived and by what means France and Germany, uniting for the joint performance of this deserving work, would succeed in effecting it without creating too great a scandal.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">Late in the afternoon, the warder told him to go to the entrance-yard. </span><span id="kobo.185.2">He hurried out and was met by the governor, who handed him over to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.185.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.186.1"> Weber. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.187.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.188.1"> Weber made him step into a motorcar in which somebody was already seated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">Lupin had a violent fit of laughter:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“What, you, my poor old Weber! </span><span id="kobo.191.2">Have they let you in for this tiresome job? </span><span id="kobo.191.3">Are you to be responsible for my escape? </span><span id="kobo.191.4">Upon my word, you are an unlucky beggar! </span><span id="kobo.191.5">Oh, my poor old chap, what hard lines! </span><span id="kobo.191.6">First made famous through my arrest, you are now to become immortal through my escape!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">He looked at the other man:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“Well, well, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.193.2">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.194.1"> de Police, so you are in the business too! </span><span id="kobo.194.2">That’s a nasty thing for you, what? </span><span id="kobo.194.3">If you take my advice, you’ll stay in the background and leave the honor and glory to Weber! </span><span id="kobo.194.4">It’s his by right!</span><span id="kobo.194.5">﻿ ﻿… And he can stand a lot, the rascal!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">The car travelled at a fast pace, along the Seine and through Boulogne. </span><span id="kobo.196.2">At Saint-Cloud, they crossed the river.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Splendid!” </span><span id="kobo.197.2">cried Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.197.3">“We’re going to Garches! </span><span id="kobo.197.4">You want me there, in order to reenact the death of Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.197.5">We shall go down into the underground passage, I shall disappear and people will say that I got through another outlet, known to myself alone! </span><span id="kobo.197.6">Lord, how idiotic!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">He seemed quite unhappy about it:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“Idiotic! </span><span id="kobo.199.2">Idiotic in the highest degree! </span><span id="kobo.199.3">I blush for shame!</span><span id="kobo.199.4">﻿ ﻿… And those are the people who govern us!</span><span id="kobo.199.5">﻿ ﻿… What an age to live in!</span><span id="kobo.199.6">﻿ ﻿… But, you poor devils, why didn’t you come to me? </span><span id="kobo.199.7">I’d have invented a beautiful little escape for you, something of a miraculous nature. </span><span id="kobo.199.8">I had it all ready pigeonholed in my mind! </span><span id="kobo.199.9">The public would have yelled with wonder and danced with delight. </span><span id="kobo.199.10">Instead of which﻿ ﻿… However, it’s quite true that you were given rather short notice﻿ ﻿… but all the same﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">The programme was exactly as Lupin had foreseen. </span><span id="kobo.200.2">They walked through the grounds of the House of Retreat to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.200.3">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.201.1">. </span><span id="kobo.201.2">Lupin and his two companions went down the stairs and along the underground passage. </span><span id="kobo.201.3">At the end of the tunnel, the deputy-chief said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“You are free.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“And there you are!” </span><span id="kobo.204.2">said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.204.3">“Is that all? </span><span id="kobo.204.4">Well, my dear Weber, thank you very much and sorry to have given you so much trouble. </span><span id="kobo.204.5">Goodbye, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.204.6">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.205.1">; kind regards to the missus!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">He climbed the stairs that led to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.207.2">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.208.1">, raised the trap-door and sprang into the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">A hand fell on his shoulder.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">Opposite him stood his first visitor of the day before, the one who had accompanied the Emperor. </span><span id="kobo.211.2">There were four men with him, two on either side.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“Look here,” said Lupin, “what’s the meaning of this joke? </span><span id="kobo.212.2">I thought I was free!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“Yes, yes,” growled the German, in his rough voice, “you are free﻿ ﻿… free to travel with the five of us﻿ ﻿… if that suits you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">Lupin looked at him, for a second, with a mad longing to hit him on the nose, just to teach him. </span><span id="kobo.214.2">But the five men looked devilish determined. </span><span id="kobo.214.3">Their leader did not betray any exaggerated fondness for him; and it seemed to him that the fellow would be only too pleased to resort to extreme measures. </span><span id="kobo.214.4">Besides, after all, what did he care?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">He chuckled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“If it suits me? </span><span id="kobo.216.2">Why, it’s the dream of my life!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">A powerful covered car was waiting in the paved yard outside the villa. </span><span id="kobo.217.2">Two men got into the driver’s seat, two others inside, with their backs to the motor. </span><span id="kobo.217.3">Lupin and the stranger sat down on the front seat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“</span><i lang="de" xml:lang="de" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.218.2">Vorwarts!</span></i><span id="kobo.219.1">” cried Lupin, in German. </span><span id="kobo.219.2">“</span><i lang="de" xml:lang="de" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.220.1">Vorwarts nach Veldenz!</span></i><span id="kobo.221.1">”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">The stranger said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“Silence! </span><span id="kobo.224.2">Those men must know nothing. </span><span id="kobo.224.3">Speak French. </span><span id="kobo.224.4">They don’t know French. </span><span id="kobo.224.5">But why speak at all?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">“Quite right,” said Lupin to himself. </span><span id="kobo.225.2">“Why speak at all?”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.227.1">The car travelled all the evening and all night, without any incident. </span><span id="kobo.227.2">Twice they stopped to take in petrol at some sleepy little town.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">The Germans took it in turns to watch their prisoner, who did not open his eyes until the early morning.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">They stopped for breakfast at an inn on a hillside, near which stood a signpost. </span><span id="kobo.229.2">Lupin saw that they were at an equal distance from Metz and Luxemburg. </span><span id="kobo.229.3">From there, they took a road that slanted northeast, in the direction of Treves.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">Lupin said to his travelling-companion:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Am I right in believing that I have the honor of speaking to Count von Waldemar, the Emperor’s confidential friend, the one who searched Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.231.2">III</span><span id="kobo.232.1">’s house in Dresden?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">The stranger remained silent.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“You’re the sort of chap I can’t stand at any price,” muttered Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.235.2">“I’ll have some fun with you, one of these days. </span><span id="kobo.235.3">You’re ugly, you’re fat, you’re heavy; in short, I don’t like you.” </span><span id="kobo.235.4">And he added, aloud, “You are wrong not to answer me, Monsieur le Comte. </span><span id="kobo.235.5">I was speaking in your own interest: </span><span id="kobo.235.6">just as we were stepping in, I saw a motor come into sight, behind us, on the horizon. </span><span id="kobo.235.7">Did you see it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“No, why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“Nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“Still.</span><span id="kobo.238.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“No, nothing at all﻿ ﻿… a mere remark.</span><span id="kobo.239.2">﻿ ﻿… Besides, we are ten minutes ahead﻿ ﻿… and our car is at least a forty-horse-power.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“It’s a sixty,” said the German, looking at him uneasily from the corner of his eye.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Oh, then we’re all right!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">They were climbing a little slope. </span><span id="kobo.242.2">When they reached the top, the count leant out of the window:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“Damn it all!” </span><span id="kobo.243.2">he swore.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“What’s the matter?” </span><span id="kobo.244.2">asked Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">The count turned to him and, in a threatening voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Take care! </span><span id="kobo.246.2">If anything happens, it will be so much the worse for you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“Oho! </span><span id="kobo.247.2">It seems the other’s gaining on us!</span><span id="kobo.247.3">﻿ ﻿… But what are you afraid of, my dear count? </span><span id="kobo.247.4">It’s no doubt a traveller﻿ ﻿… perhaps even someone they are sending to help us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“I don’t want any help,” growled the German.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">He leant out again. </span><span id="kobo.249.2">The car was only two or three hundred yards behind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">He said to his men, pointing to Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“Bind him. </span><span id="kobo.251.2">If he resists.</span><span id="kobo.251.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">He drew his revolver.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“Why should I resist, O gentle Teuton?” </span><span id="kobo.253.2">chuckled Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.253.3">And he added, while they were fastening his hands, “It is really curious to see how people take precautions when they need not and don’t when they ought to. </span><span id="kobo.253.4">What the devil do you care about that motor? </span><span id="kobo.253.5">Accomplices of mine? </span><span id="kobo.253.6">What an idea!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">Without replying, the German gave orders to the driver:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“To the right!</span><span id="kobo.255.2">﻿ ﻿… Slow down!</span><span id="kobo.255.3">﻿ ﻿… Let them pass.</span><span id="kobo.255.4">﻿ ﻿… If they slow down also, stop!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">But, to his great surprise, the motor seemed, on the contrary, to increase its speed. </span><span id="kobo.256.2">It passed in front of the car like a whirlwind, in a cloud of dust. </span><span id="kobo.256.3">Standing up at the back, leaning over the hood, which was lowered, was a man dressed in black.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">He raised his arm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">Two shots rang out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">The count, who was blocking the whole of the left window, fell back into the car.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">Before even attending to him, the two men leapt upon Lupin and finished securing him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“Jackasses! </span><span id="kobo.261.2">Blockheads!” </span><span id="kobo.261.3">shouted Lupin, shaking with rage. </span><span id="kobo.261.4">“Let me go, on the contrary! </span><span id="kobo.261.5">There now, we’re stopping! </span><span id="kobo.261.6">But go after him, you silly fools, catch him up!</span><span id="kobo.261.7">﻿ ﻿… It’s the man in black, I tell you, the murderer!</span><span id="kobo.261.8">﻿ ﻿… Oh, the idiots!</span><span id="kobo.261.9">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">They gagged him. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">Then they attended to the count. </span><span id="kobo.262.3">The wound did not appear to be serious and was soon dressed. </span><span id="kobo.262.4">But the patient, who was in a very excited state, had an attack of fever and became delirious.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">It was eight o’clock in the morning. </span><span id="kobo.263.2">They were in the open country, far from any village. </span><span id="kobo.263.3">The men had no information as to the exact object of the journey. </span><span id="kobo.263.4">Where were they to go? </span><span id="kobo.263.5">Whom were they to send to?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">They drew up the motor beside a wood and waited. </span><span id="kobo.264.2">The whole day went by in this way. </span><span id="kobo.264.3">It was evening before a squad of cavalry arrived, dispatched from Treves in search of the motorcar.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">Two hours later, Lupin stepped out of the car, and still escorted by his two Germans, by the light of a lantern climbed the steps of a staircase that led to a small room with iron-barred windows.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">Here he spent the night.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.268.1">The next morning, an officer led him, through a courtyard filled with soldiers, to the centre of a long row of buildings that ran round the foot of a mound covered with monumental ruins.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">He was shown into a large, hastily-furnished room. </span><span id="kobo.269.2">His visitor of two days back was sitting at a writing-table, reading newspapers and reports, which he marked with great strokes of red pencil:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“Leave us,” he said to the officer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">And, going up to Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“The papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">The tone was no longer the same. </span><span id="kobo.273.2">It was now the harsh and imperious tone of the master who is at home and addressing an inferior﻿ ﻿… and such an inferior! </span><span id="kobo.273.3">A rogue, an adventurer of the worst type, before whom he had been obliged to humiliate himself!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“The papers,” he repeated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">Lupin was not put out of countenance. </span><span id="kobo.275.2">He said, quite calmly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“They are in Veldenz Castle.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“We are in the outbuildings of the castle. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">Those are the ruins of Veldenz, over there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“The papers are in the ruins.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">“Let us go to them. </span><span id="kobo.279.2">Show me the way.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">Lupin did not budge.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“Well, Sire, it is not as simple as you think. </span><span id="kobo.282.2">It takes some time to bring into play the elements which are needed to open that hiding-place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“How long do you want?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“Twenty-four hours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">An angry movement, quickly suppressed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“Oh, there was no question of that between us!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“Nothing was specified, neither that nor the little trip which Your Imperial Majesty made me take in the charge of half a dozen of your bodyguard. </span><span id="kobo.287.2">I am to hand over the papers, that is all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“And I am not to give you your liberty until you do hand over those papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">“It is a question of confidence, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.289.2">I should have considered myself quite as much bound to produce the papers if I had been free on leaving prison; and Your Imperial Majesty may be sure that I should not have walked off with them. </span><span id="kobo.289.3">The only difference is that they would now be in your possession. </span><span id="kobo.289.4">For we have lost a day, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.289.5">And a day, in this business﻿ ﻿… is a day too much.</span><span id="kobo.289.6">﻿ ﻿… Only, there it is, you should have had confidence.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">The Emperor gazed with a certain amazement at that outcast, that vagabond, who seemed vexed that anyone should doubt his word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">He did not reply, but rang the bell:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“The officer on duty,” he commanded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">Count von Waldemar appeared, looking very white.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“Ah, it’s you, Waldemar? </span><span id="kobo.294.2">So you’re all right again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“At your service, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“Take five men with you﻿ ﻿… the same men, as you’re sure of them. </span><span id="kobo.296.2">Don’t leave this﻿ ﻿… gentleman until tomorrow morning.” </span><span id="kobo.296.3">He looked at his watch. </span><span id="kobo.296.4">“Until tomorrow morning at ten o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.296.5">No, I will give him till twelve. </span><span id="kobo.296.6">You will go wherever he thinks fit to go, you will do whatever he tells you to do. </span><span id="kobo.296.7">In short, you are at his disposal. </span><span id="kobo.296.8">At twelve o’clock, I will join you. </span><span id="kobo.296.9">If, at the last stroke of twelve, he has not handed me the bundle of letters, you will put him back in your car and, without losing a second, take him straight to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.296.10">Santé</span><span id="kobo.297.1"> Prison.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“If he tries to escape.</span><span id="kobo.299.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">“Take your own course.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">He went out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">Lupin helped himself to a cigar from the table and threw himself into an easy chair:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“Good! </span><span id="kobo.303.2">I just love that way of going to work. </span><span id="kobo.303.3">It is frank and explicit.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">The count had brought in his men. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">He said to Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“March!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">Lupin lit his cigar and did not move.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“Bind his hands,” said the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">And, when the order was executed, he repeated:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“Now then, march!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“What do you mean by no?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“I’m wondering.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“What about?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“Where on earth that hiding-place can be!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">The count gave a start and Lupin chuckled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“For the best part of the story is that I have not the remotest idea where that famous hiding-place is nor how to set about discovering it. </span><span id="kobo.316.2">What do you say to that, my dear Waldemar, eh? </span><span id="kobo.316.3">Funny, isn’t it?</span><span id="kobo.316.4">﻿ ﻿… Not the very remotest idea!</span><span id="kobo.316.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>