<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>VI: M. Lenormand Succumbs</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-6" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">VI</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><abbr class="calibre17"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.3.1" class="kobospan"> Lenormand Succumbs</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.6.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.7.1"> Lenormand was back in his room at the Prefecture of Police at six o’clock in the evening. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">He at once sent for Dieuzy:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">“Is your man here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“Yes, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“How far have you got with him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“Not very. </span><span id="kobo.12.2">He won’t speak a word. </span><span id="kobo.12.3">I told him that, by a new regulation, foreigners were ’bliged to make a declaration at the Prefecture as to the object and the probable length of their stay in Paris; and I brought him here, to your secretary’s office.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“I will question him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">But, at that moment, an office-messenger appeared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“There’s a lady asking to see you at once, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Have you her card?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“Here, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.18.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.19.1"> Kesselbach! </span><span id="kobo.19.2">Show her in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">He walked across the room to receive the young widow at the door and begged her to take a seat. </span><span id="kobo.21.2">She still wore the same disconsolate look, the same appearance of illness and that air of extreme lassitude which revealed the distress of her life.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">She held out a copy of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.22.2">Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.23.1"> and pointed to the line in the agony-column which mentioned Steinweg:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“Old Steinweg was a friend of my husband’s,” she said, “and I have no doubt that he knows a good many things.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“Dieuzy,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.26.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.27.1"> Lenormand, “bring the person who is waiting.</span><span id="kobo.27.2">﻿ ﻿… Your visit, madame, will not have been useless. </span><span id="kobo.27.3">I will only ask you, when this person enters, not to say a word.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">The door opened. </span><span id="kobo.29.2">A man appeared, an old man with white whiskers meeting under his chin and a face furrowed with deep wrinkles, poorly clad and wearing the hunted look of those wretches who roam about the world in search of their daily pittance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">He stood on the threshold, blinking his eyelids, stared at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.30.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.31.1"> Lenormand, seemed confused by the silence that greeted him on his entrance and turned his hat in his hands with embarrassment.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">But, suddenly, he appeared stupefied, his eyes opened wide and he stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.34.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.35.1">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.36.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.37.1"> Kesselbach!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">He had seen the young widow. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">And, recovering his serenity, smiling, losing his shyness, he went up to her and in a strong German accent:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Oh, I am glad!</span><span id="kobo.40.2">﻿ ﻿… At last!</span><span id="kobo.40.3">﻿ ﻿… I thought I should never﻿ ﻿… I was so surprised to receive no news down there﻿ ﻿… no telegrams.</span><span id="kobo.40.4">﻿ ﻿… And how is our dear Rudolf Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">The lady staggered back, as though she had been struck in the face, and at once fell into a chair and began to sob.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“What’s the matter?</span><span id="kobo.42.2">﻿ ﻿… Why, what’s the matter?” </span><span id="kobo.42.3">asked Steinweg.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.43.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.44.1"> Lenormand interposed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“I see, sir, that you know nothing about certain events that have taken place recently. </span><span id="kobo.46.2">Have you been long travelling?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“Yes, three months.</span><span id="kobo.47.2">﻿ ﻿… I had been up to the Rand. </span><span id="kobo.47.3">Then I went back to Capetown and wrote to Rudolf from there. </span><span id="kobo.47.4">But, on my way home by the East Coast route, I accepted some work at Port Said. </span><span id="kobo.47.5">Rudolf has had my letter, I suppose?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“He is away. </span><span id="kobo.48.2">I will explain the reason of his absence. </span><span id="kobo.48.3">But, first, there is a point on which we should be glad of some information. </span><span id="kobo.48.4">It has to do with a person whom you knew and to whom you used to refer, in your intercourse with </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.48.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.49.1"> Kesselbach, by the name of Pierre Leduc.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Pierre Leduc! </span><span id="kobo.51.2">What! </span><span id="kobo.51.3">Who told you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">The old man was utterly taken aback.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">He spluttered out again:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“Who told you? </span><span id="kobo.54.2">Who disclosed to you﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.55.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.56.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“Never! </span><span id="kobo.58.2">It was a secret which I confided to him and Rudolf keeps his secrets﻿ ﻿… especially this one﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary that you should reply to our questions. </span><span id="kobo.59.2">We are at this moment engaged on an inquiry about Pierre Leduc which must come to a head without delay; and you alone can enlighten us, as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.59.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.60.1"> Kesselbach is no longer here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Well, then,” cried Steinweg, apparently making up his mind, “what do you want?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“Do you know Pierre Leduc?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“I have never seen him, but I have long been the possessor of a secret which concerns him. </span><span id="kobo.64.2">Through a number of incidents which I need not relate and thanks to a series of chances, I ended by acquiring the certainty that the man in whose discovery I was interested was leading a dissolute life in Paris and that he was calling himself Pierre Leduc, which is not his real name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“But does he know his real name himself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“I presume so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“And you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“Yes, I know it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“Well, tell it to us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">He hesitated; then, vehemently:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“I can’t,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.71.2">“No, I can’t.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“But why not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“I have no right to. </span><span id="kobo.73.2">The whole secret lies there. </span><span id="kobo.73.3">When I revealed the secret to Rudolf, he attached so much importance to it that he gave me a large sum of money to purchase my silence and he promised me a fortune, a real fortune, on the day when he should succeed, first, in finding Pierre Leduc and, next, in turning the secret to account.” </span><span id="kobo.73.4">He smiled bitterly. </span><span id="kobo.73.5">“The large sum of money is already lost. </span><span id="kobo.73.6">I came to see how my fortune was getting on.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.74.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.75.1"> Kesselbach is dead,” said the chief detective.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">Steinweg gave a bound:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“Dead! </span><span id="kobo.78.2">Is it possible? </span><span id="kobo.78.3">No, it’s a trap. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.78.4">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.79.1"> Kesselbach, is it true?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">She bowed her head.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">He seemed crushed by this unexpected revelation; and, at the same time, it must have been infinitely painful to him, for he began to cry:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">“My poor Rudolf, I knew him when he was a little boy.</span><span id="kobo.83.2">﻿ ﻿… He used to come and play at my house at Augsburg.</span><span id="kobo.83.3">﻿ ﻿… I was very fond of him.” </span><span id="kobo.83.4">And, calling </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.83.5">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.84.1"> Kesselbach to witness, “And he of me, was he not, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.85.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.86.1"> Kesselbach? </span><span id="kobo.86.2">He must have told you.</span><span id="kobo.86.3">﻿ ﻿… His old Daddy Steinweg, he used to call me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.88.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.89.1"> Lenormand went up to him and, in his clearest voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“Listen to me,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.91.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.92.1"> Kesselbach died murdered.</span><span id="kobo.92.2">﻿ ﻿… Come, be calm﻿ ﻿… exclamations are of no use.</span><span id="kobo.92.3">﻿ ﻿… He died murdered, I say, and all the circumstances of the crime prove that the culprit knew about the scheme in question. </span><span id="kobo.92.4">Was there anything in the nature of that scheme that would enable you to guess﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">Steinweg stood dumbfounded. </span><span id="kobo.94.2">He stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“It was my fault.</span><span id="kobo.95.2">﻿ ﻿… If I had not suggested the thing to him﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.96.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.97.1"> Kesselbach went up to him, entreating him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Do you think﻿ ﻿… have you any idea?</span><span id="kobo.99.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, Steinweg, I implore you!</span><span id="kobo.99.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“I have no idea.</span><span id="kobo.100.2">﻿ ﻿… I have not reflected,” he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.100.3">“I must have time to reflect.</span><span id="kobo.100.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Cast about in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.101.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.102.1"> Kesselbach’s surroundings,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.103.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.104.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.104.2">“Did nobody take part in your interviews at that time? </span><span id="kobo.104.3">Was there nobody in whom he himself could have confided?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“Think well.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">Both the others, Dolores and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.108.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.109.1"> Lenormand, leant toward him, anxiously awaiting his answer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“No,” he said, “I don’t see.</span><span id="kobo.111.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Think well,” repeated the chief detective. </span><span id="kobo.112.2">“The murderer’s Christian name and surname begin with an L and an M.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“An L,” he echoed. </span><span id="kobo.113.2">“I don’t see﻿ ﻿… an L﻿ ﻿… an M.</span><span id="kobo.113.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Yes, the initials are in gold on the corner of a cigarette-case belonging to the murderer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“A cigarette-case?” </span><span id="kobo.115.2">asked Steinweg, making an effort of memory.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“A gunmetal case﻿ ﻿… and one of the compartments is divided into two spaces, the smaller for cigarette-papers, the other for tobacco.</span><span id="kobo.116.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“Two spaces, two spaces,” repeated Steinweg, whose thoughts seemed stimulated by that detail. </span><span id="kobo.117.2">“Couldn’t you show it to me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Here it is, or rather this is an exact reproduction,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.118.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.119.1"> Lenormand, giving him a cigarette-case.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“Eh! </span><span id="kobo.121.2">What!” </span><span id="kobo.121.3">said Steinweg, taking the case in his hands.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">He looked at it with stupid eyes, examined it, turned it over in every direction and, suddenly, gave a cry, the cry of a man struck with a horrible idea. </span><span id="kobo.122.2">And he stood like that, livid, with trembling hands and wild, staring eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Speak, come, speak!” </span><span id="kobo.123.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.123.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.124.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“Oh,” he said, as though blinded with light, “now all is explained!</span><span id="kobo.126.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“Speak, speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">He walked across to the windows with a tottering step, then returned and, rushing up to the chief detective:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“Sir, sir﻿ ﻿… Rudolf’s murderer﻿ ﻿… I’ll tell you.</span><span id="kobo.129.2">﻿ ﻿… Well﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">He stopped short.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">There was a moment’s pause.</span><span id="kobo.132.2">﻿ ﻿… Was the name of the odious criminal about to echo through the great silence of the office, between those walls which had heard so many accusations, so many confessions? </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.132.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.133.1"> Lenormand felt as if he were on the brink of the unfathomable abyss and as if a voice were mounting, mounting up to him.</span><span id="kobo.133.2">﻿ ﻿… A few seconds more and he would know.</span><span id="kobo.133.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“No,” muttered Steinweg, “no, I can’t.</span><span id="kobo.135.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“What’s that you say?” </span><span id="kobo.136.2">cried the chief detective, furiously.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“I say that I can’t.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“But you have no right to be silent. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">The law requires you to speak.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.139.2">﻿ ﻿… I will speak tomorrow﻿ ﻿… I must have time to reflect.</span><span id="kobo.139.3">﻿ ﻿… Tomorrow, I will tell you all that I know about Pierre Leduc﻿ ﻿… all that I suppose about that cigarette-case.</span><span id="kobo.139.4">﻿ ﻿… Tomorrow, I promise you.</span><span id="kobo.139.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">It was obvious that he possessed that sort of obstinacy against which the most energetic efforts are of no avail. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.140.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.141.1"> Lenormand yielded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.143.2">I give you until tomorrow, but I warn you that, if you do not speak tomorrow, I shall be obliged to go to the examining-magistrate.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">He rang and, taking Inspector Dieuzy aside, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“Go with him to his hotel﻿ ﻿… and stay there.</span><span id="kobo.145.2">﻿ ﻿… I’ll send you two men.</span><span id="kobo.145.3">﻿ ﻿… And mind you keep your eyes about you. </span><span id="kobo.145.4">Somebody may try to get hold of him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">The inspector went off with Steinweg; and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.146.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.147.1"> Lenormand, returning to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.148.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.149.1"> Kesselbach, who had been violently affected by this scene, made his excuses.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“Pray accept all my regrets, madame.</span><span id="kobo.151.2">﻿ ﻿… I can understand how upset you must feel.</span><span id="kobo.151.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">He questioned her as to the period at which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.152.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.153.1"> Kesselbach renewed his relations with old Steinweg and as to the length of time for which those relations lasted. </span><span id="kobo.153.2">But she was so much worn-out that he did not insist.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Am I to come back tomorrow?” </span><span id="kobo.155.2">she asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“No, it’s not necessary. </span><span id="kobo.156.2">I will let you know all that Steinweg says. </span><span id="kobo.156.3">May I see you down to your carriage? </span><span id="kobo.156.4">These three flights are rather steep.</span><span id="kobo.156.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">He opened the door and stood back to let her pass. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">At that moment shouts were heard in the passage and people came running up, inspectors on duty, office-messengers, clerks:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“Chief! </span><span id="kobo.158.2">Chief!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“What’s the matter?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“Dieuzy!</span><span id="kobo.160.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“But he’s just left here.</span><span id="kobo.161.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“He’s been found on the staircase.</span><span id="kobo.162.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“Not dead?</span><span id="kobo.163.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“No, stunned, fainting.</span><span id="kobo.164.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“But the man﻿ ﻿… the man who was with him﻿ ﻿… old Steinweg?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“He’s disappeared.</span><span id="kobo.166.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“Damn it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">He rushed along the passage and down the stairs, where he found Dieuzy lying on the first-floor landing, surrounded by people who were attending to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">He saw Gourel coming up again:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“Oh, Gourel, have you been downstairs? </span><span id="kobo.170.2">Did you come across anybody?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“No, chief.</span><span id="kobo.171.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">But Dieuzy was recovering consciousness and, almost before he had opened his eyes, mumbled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“Here, on the landing, the little door.</span><span id="kobo.173.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">“Oh, hang it, the door of Court 7!”</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.174.2">5</span></a><span id="kobo.175.1"> shouted the chief detective. </span><span id="kobo.175.2">“Didn’t I say that it was to be kept locked?</span><span id="kobo.175.3">﻿ ﻿… It was certain that, sooner or later﻿ ﻿…” He seized the door-handle. </span><span id="kobo.175.4">“Oh, of course! </span><span id="kobo.175.5">The door is bolted on the other side now!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">The door was partly glazed. </span><span id="kobo.177.2">He smashed a pane with the butt-end of his revolver, drew the bolt and said to Gourel:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">“Run through this way to the exit on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.178.2">Place Dauphine</span><span id="kobo.179.1">.</span><span id="kobo.179.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">He went back to Dieuzy:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“Come, Dieuzy, tell me about it. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">How did you come to let yourself be put into this state?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“A blow in the pit of the stomach, chief.</span><span id="kobo.183.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“A blow? </span><span id="kobo.184.2">From that old chap?</span><span id="kobo.184.3">﻿ ﻿… Why, he can hardly stand on his legs!</span><span id="kobo.184.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“Not the old man, chief, but another, who was walking up and down the passage while Steinweg was with you and who followed us as though he were going out, too.</span><span id="kobo.185.2">﻿ ﻿… When we got as far as this, he asked me for a light.</span><span id="kobo.185.3">﻿ ﻿… I looked for my matches﻿ ﻿… Then he caught me a punch in the stomach.</span><span id="kobo.185.4">﻿ ﻿… I fell down, and, as I fell, I thought I saw him open that door and drag the old man with him.</span><span id="kobo.185.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“Would you know him again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“Oh yes, chief﻿ ﻿… a powerful fellow, very dark-skinned﻿ ﻿… a southerner of sorts, that’s certain.</span><span id="kobo.187.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“Ribeira,” snarled </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.188.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.189.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">“Always Ribeira!</span><span id="kobo.189.3">﻿ ﻿… Ribeira, alias Parbury.</span><span id="kobo.189.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, the impudence of the scoundrel! </span><span id="kobo.189.5">He was afraid of what old Steinweg might say﻿ ﻿… and came to fetch him away under my very nose!” </span><span id="kobo.189.6">And, stamping his foot with anger, “But, dash it, how did he know that Steinweg was here, the blackguard! </span><span id="kobo.189.7">It’s only four hours since I was chasing him in the Saint-Cucufa woods﻿ ﻿… and now he’s here!</span><span id="kobo.189.8">﻿ ﻿… How did he know?</span><span id="kobo.189.9">﻿ ﻿… One would think he lived inside my skin!</span><span id="kobo.189.10">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">He was seized with one of those fits of dreaming in which he seemed to hear nothing and see nothing. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.191.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.192.1"> Kesselbach, who passed at that moment, bowed without his replying.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">But a sound of footsteps in the corridor roused him from his lethargy.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“At last, is that you, Gourel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">“I’ve found out how it was, chief,” said Gourel, panting for breath. </span><span id="kobo.196.2">“There were two of them. </span><span id="kobo.196.3">They went this way and out of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.196.4">Place Dauphine</span><span id="kobo.197.1">. </span><span id="kobo.197.2">There was a motorcar waiting for them. </span><span id="kobo.197.3">There were two people inside: </span><span id="kobo.197.4">one was a man dressed in black, with a soft hat pulled over his eyes﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“That’s he,” muttered </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.199.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.200.1"> Lenormand, “that’s the murderer, the accomplice of Ribeira﻿—Parbury. </span><span id="kobo.200.2">And who was the other?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“A woman, a woman without a hat, a servant-girl, it might be.</span><span id="kobo.202.2">﻿ ﻿… And good-looking, I’m told, with red hair.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“Eh, what! </span><span id="kobo.203.2">You say she had red hair?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.205.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.206.1"> Lenormand turned round with a bound, ran down the stairs four steps at a time, hurried across the courtyard and came out on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.207.1">Quai des Orfèvres</span><span id="kobo.208.1">:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Stop!” </span><span id="kobo.210.2">he shouted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">A victoria and pair was driving off. </span><span id="kobo.211.2">It was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.211.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.212.1"> Kesselbach’s carriage. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">The coachman heard and pulled up his horses. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.213.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.214.1"> Lenormand sprang on the step:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“I beg a thousand pardons, madame, but I cannot do without your assistance. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">I will ask you to let me go with you.</span><span id="kobo.216.3">﻿ ﻿… But we must act swiftly.</span><span id="kobo.216.4">﻿ ﻿… Gourel, where’s my taxi?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">“I’ve sent it away, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“Well then, get another, quick!”</span><span id="kobo.218.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">The men all ran in different directions. </span><span id="kobo.219.2">But ten minutes elapsed before one of them returned with a motor-cab. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.219.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.220.1"> Lenormand was boiling with impatience. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.221.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.222.1"> Kesselbach, standing on the pavement, swayed from side to side, with her smelling-salts in her hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">At last they were seated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">“Gourel, get up beside the driver and go straight to Garches.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“To my house?” </span><span id="kobo.226.2">asked Dolores, astounded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">He did not reply. </span><span id="kobo.227.2">He leant out of the window, waved his pass, explained who he was to the policeman regulating the traffic in the streets. </span><span id="kobo.227.3">At last, when they reached the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.227.4">Cours-la-Reine</span><span id="kobo.228.1">, he sat down again and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“I beseech you, madame, to give me plain answers to my questions. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">Did you see </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.230.3">Mlle.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.231.1"> Geneviève Ernemont just now, at about four o’clock?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“Geneviève?</span><span id="kobo.233.2">﻿ ﻿… Yes.</span><span id="kobo.233.3">﻿ ﻿… I was dressing to go out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“Did she tell you of the advertisement about Steinweg in the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.234.2">Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.235.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“She did.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“And it was that which made you come to see me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“Were you alone during </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.240.2">Mlle.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.241.1"> Ernemont’s visit?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“Upon my word, I can’t say.</span><span id="kobo.243.2">﻿ ﻿… Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“Recollect. </span><span id="kobo.244.2">Was one of your servants present?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">“Probably﻿ ﻿… as I was dressing.</span><span id="kobo.245.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“What are their names?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“Suzanne and Gertrude.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“One of them has red hair, has she not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">“Yes, Gertrude.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">“Have you known her long?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“Her sister has always been with me﻿ ﻿… and so has Gertrude, for years.</span><span id="kobo.251.2">﻿ ﻿… She is devotion and honesty personified.</span><span id="kobo.251.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">“In short, you will answer for her?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“Oh, absolutely!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“Very well﻿ ﻿… very well.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">It was half-past seven and the daylight was beginning to wane when the taxicab reached the House of Retreat. </span><span id="kobo.255.2">Without troubling about his companion, the chief detective rushed into the porter’s lodge:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.256.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.257.1"> Kesselbach’s maid has just come in, has she not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“Whom do you mean, the maid?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">“Why, Gertrude, one of the two sisters.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“But Gertrude can’t have been out, sir. </span><span id="kobo.261.2">We haven’t seen her go out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“Still someone has just come in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“No, sir, we haven’t opened the door to anybody since﻿—let me see﻿—six o’clock this evening.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“Is there no other way out than this gate?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.265.2">The walls surround the estate on every side and they are very high.</span><span id="kobo.265.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.266.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.267.1"> Kesselbach, we will go to your house, please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">They all three went. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.269.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.270.1"> Kesselbach, who had no key, rang. </span><span id="kobo.270.2">The door was answered by Suzanne, the other sister.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“Is Gertrude in?” </span><span id="kobo.272.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.272.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.273.1"> Kesselbach.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“Yes, ma’am, in her room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“Send her down, please,” said the chief detective.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">After a moment, Gertrude came downstairs, looking very attractive and engaging in her white embroidered apron.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">She had, in point of fact, a rather pretty face, crowned with red hair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.279.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.280.1"> Lenormand looked at her for a long time without speaking, as though he were trying to read what lay behind those innocent eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">He asked her no questions. </span><span id="kobo.282.2">After a minute, he simply said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“That will do, thank you. </span><span id="kobo.283.2">Come, Gourel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">He went out with the sergeant and, at once, as they followed the darkling paths of the garden, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“That’s the one!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“Do you think so, chief? </span><span id="kobo.286.2">She looked so placid!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“Much too placid. </span><span id="kobo.287.2">Another would have been astonished, would have wanted to know why I sent for her. </span><span id="kobo.287.3">Not this one! </span><span id="kobo.287.4">Nothing but the concentrated effort of a face that is determined to smile at all costs. </span><span id="kobo.287.5">Only, I saw a drop of perspiration trickle from her temple along her ear.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“So that﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">“So that everything becomes plain. </span><span id="kobo.289.2">Gertrude is in league with the two ruffians who are conspiring round the Kesselbach case, in order either to discover and carry out the famous scheme, or to capture the widow’s millions. </span><span id="kobo.289.3">No doubt, the other sister is in the plot as well. </span><span id="kobo.289.4">At four o’clock, Gertrude, learning that I know of the advertisement in the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.289.5">Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.290.1">, takes advantage of her mistress’s absence, hastens to Paris, finds Ribeira and the man in the soft hat and drags them off to the Palais, where Ribeira annexes Master Steinweg for his own purposes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">He reflected and concluded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">“All this proves, first, the importance which they attach to Steinweg and their fear of what he may reveal; secondly, that a regular plot is being hatched around </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.293.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.294.1"> Kesselbach; thirdly, that I have no time to lose, for the plot is ripe.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“Very well,” said Gourel, “but one thing remains unexplained. </span><span id="kobo.296.2">How was Gertrude able to leave the garden in which we now are and to enter it again, unknown to the porter and his wife?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Through a secret passage which the rogues must have contrived to make quite recently.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“And which would end, no doubt,” said Gourel, “in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.298.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.299.1"> Kesselbach’s house.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“Yes, perhaps,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.301.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.302.1"> Lenormand, “perhaps﻿ ﻿… But I have another idea.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">They followed the circuit of the wall. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">It was a bright night; and, though their two forms were hardly distinguishable, they themselves could see enough to examine the stones of the walls and to convince themselves that no breach, however skilful, had been effected.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“A ladder, very likely?” </span><span id="kobo.305.2">suggested Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“No, because Gertrude is able to get out in broad daylight. </span><span id="kobo.306.2">A communication of the kind I mean can evidently not end out of doors. </span><span id="kobo.306.3">The entrance must be concealed by some building already in existence.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“There are only the four garden-houses,” objected Gourel, “and they are all inhabited.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">“I beg your pardon: </span><span id="kobo.308.2">the third, the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.308.3">Pavillon Hortense</span><span id="kobo.309.1">, is not inhabited.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“Who told you so?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“The porter. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.312.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.313.1"> Kesselbach hired this house, which is near her own, for fear of the noise. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">Who knows but that, in so doing, she acted under Gertrude’s influence?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">He walked round the house in question. </span><span id="kobo.315.2">The shutters were closed. </span><span id="kobo.315.3">He lifted the latch of the door, on the off-chance; the door opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“Ah, Gourel, I think we’ve struck it! </span><span id="kobo.316.2">Let’s go in. </span><span id="kobo.316.3">Light your lantern.</span><span id="kobo.316.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, the hall﻿ ﻿… the drawing-room﻿ ﻿… the dining-room﻿ ﻿… that’s no use. </span><span id="kobo.316.5">There must be a basement, as the kitchen is not on this floor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“This way, chief﻿ ﻿… the kitchen-stairs are here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">They went down into a rather large kitchen, crammed full of wickerwork garden-chairs and flower-stands. </span><span id="kobo.318.2">Beside it was a washhouse, which also served as a cellar, and which presented the same untidy sight of objects piled one on the top of the other.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“What is that shiny thing down there, chief?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">Gourel stooped and picked up a brass pin with a head made of an imitation pearl.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“The pearl is quite bright still,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.321.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.322.1"> Lenormand, “which it would not be if it had been lying in this cellar long. </span><span id="kobo.322.2">Gertrude passed this way, Gourel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">Gourel began to demolish a great stack of empty wine-casks, writing desks and old rickety tables.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“You are wasting your time,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.325.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.326.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">“If that is the way out, how would she have time first to move all those things and then to replace them behind her? </span><span id="kobo.326.3">Look, here is a shutter out of use, which has no valid reason for being fastened to the wall by that nail. </span><span id="kobo.326.4">Draw it back.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">Gourel did so. </span><span id="kobo.328.2">Behind the shutter, the wall was hollowed out. </span><span id="kobo.328.3">By the light of the lantern they saw an underground passage running downwards.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“I was right,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.329.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.330.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.330.2">“The communication is of recent date. </span><span id="kobo.330.3">You see, it’s a piece of work hurriedly done, and not intended to last for any length of time.</span><span id="kobo.330.4">﻿ ﻿… No masonry.</span><span id="kobo.330.5">﻿ ﻿… Two planks placed crosswise at intervals, with a joist to serve as a roof; and that is all. </span><span id="kobo.330.6">It will hold up as best it may: </span><span id="kobo.330.7">well enough, in any case, for the object in view, that is to say﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“That is to say what, chief?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“Well, first to allow of the going backwards and forwards between Gertrude and her accomplices﻿ ﻿… and then, one day, one day soon, of the kidnapping, or rather the total, miraculous, incomprehensible disappearance of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.333.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.334.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">They proceeded cautiously, so as not to knock against certain beams which did not look over-safe. </span><span id="kobo.336.2">It at once became evident that the tunnel was much longer than the fifty yards at most that separated the house from the boundary of the garden. </span><span id="kobo.336.3">It must, therefore, end at a fair distance from the walls and beyond the road that skirted the property.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">“We are not going in the direction of Villeneuve and the lake are we?” </span><span id="kobo.337.2">asked Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">“Not at all, the other way about,” declared </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.338.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.339.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">The tunnel descended with a gentle slope. </span><span id="kobo.341.2">There was a step, then another; and they veered toward the right. </span><span id="kobo.341.3">They at once knocked up against a door which was fitted into a rubble frame, carefully cemented. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.341.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.342.1"> Lenormand pushed it and it opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">“One second, Gourel,” he said, stopping. </span><span id="kobo.344.2">“Let us think.</span><span id="kobo.344.3">﻿ ﻿… It might perhaps be wiser to turn back.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">“We must reflect that Ribeira will have foreseen the danger and presume that he has taken his precautions, in case the underground passage should be discovered. </span><span id="kobo.346.2">Now he knows that we are on his track. </span><span id="kobo.346.3">He knows that we are searching the garden. </span><span id="kobo.346.4">He no doubt saw us enter the house. </span><span id="kobo.346.5">How do I know that he is not at this moment laying a trap for us?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">“There are two of us, chief.</span><span id="kobo.347.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">“And suppose there were twenty of them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">He looked in front of him. </span><span id="kobo.349.2">The tunnel sloped upward again, closed by another door, which was at five or six yards’ distance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“Let us go so far,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.350.2">“Then we shall see.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">He passed through, followed by Gourel, whom he told to leave the first door open, and walked to the other door, resolving within himself to go no farther. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">But this second door was shut; and though the lock seemed to work, he could not succeed in opening it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">“The door is bolted,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.352.2">“Let us make no noise and go back. </span><span id="kobo.352.3">The more so as, outside, by remembering the position of the tunnel, we can fix the line along which to look for the other outlet.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">They therefore retraced their steps to the first door, when Gourel, who was walking ahead, gave an exclamation of surprise:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“Why, it’s closed!</span><span id="kobo.354.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.355.1">“How is that? </span><span id="kobo.355.2">When I told you to leave it open!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">“I did leave it open, chief, but the door must have fallen back of its own weight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">“Impossible! </span><span id="kobo.357.2">We should have heard the sound.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“Then?</span><span id="kobo.358.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“Then﻿ ﻿… then﻿ ﻿… I don’t know﻿ ﻿…” He went up to the door. </span><span id="kobo.359.2">“Let’s see,﻿ ﻿… there’s a key﻿ ﻿… does it turn?</span><span id="kobo.359.3">﻿ ﻿… Yes, it turns. </span><span id="kobo.359.4">But there seems to be a bolt on the other side.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“Who can have fastened it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">“They, of course! </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Behind our backs!</span><span id="kobo.361.3">﻿ ﻿… Perhaps they have another tunnel that runs above this one, alongside of it﻿ ﻿… or else they were waiting in that empty house.</span><span id="kobo.361.4">﻿ ﻿… In any case, we’re caught in a trap.</span><span id="kobo.361.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">He grew angry with the lock, thrust his knife into the chink of the door, tried every means and then, in a moment of weariness, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“There’s nothing to be done!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.364.1">“What, chief, nothing to be done? </span><span id="kobo.364.2">In that case, we’re diddled!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">“I dare say!” </span><span id="kobo.365.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.365.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.366.1"> Lenormand.</span><span id="kobo.366.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">They returned to the other door and came back again to the first. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">Both were solid, made of hard wood, strengthened with crossbeams﻿ ﻿… in short, indestructible.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“We should want a hatchet,” said the chief of the detective-service, “or at the very least, a serious implement﻿ ﻿… a knife even, with which we might try to cut away the place where the bolt is most likely to be﻿ ﻿… and we have nothing.</span><span id="kobo.369.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">He was seized with a sudden fit of rage and flung himself upon the obstacle, as though he hoped to do away with it. </span><span id="kobo.370.2">Then, powerless, beaten, he said to Gourel:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“Listen, we’ll look into this in an hour or two.</span><span id="kobo.371.2">﻿ ﻿… I am tired out.</span><span id="kobo.371.3">﻿ ﻿… I am going to sleep.</span><span id="kobo.371.4">﻿ ﻿… Keep watch so long﻿ ﻿… and if they come and attack us﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“Ah, if they come, we shall be saved, chief!” </span><span id="kobo.372.2">cried Gourel, who would have been relieved by a fight, however great the odds.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.373.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.374.1"> Lenormand lay down on the ground. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">In a minute, he was asleep.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.377.1">When he woke up, he remained for some seconds undecided, not understanding; and he also asked himself what sort of pain it was that was tormenting him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“Gourel!” </span><span id="kobo.378.2">he called. </span><span id="kobo.378.3">“Come! </span><span id="kobo.378.4">Gourel!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">Obtaining no reply, he pressed the spring of his lantern and saw Gourel lying beside him, sound asleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“What on earth can this pain be?” </span><span id="kobo.380.2">he thought. </span><span id="kobo.380.3">“Regular twitchings.</span><span id="kobo.380.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, why, of course, I am hungry, that’s all.</span><span id="kobo.380.5">﻿ ﻿… I’m starving! </span><span id="kobo.380.6">What can the time be?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">His watch marked twenty minutes past seven, but he remembered that he had not wound it up. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">Gourel’s watch was not going either.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">Gourel had awoke under the action of the same inward pangs, which made them think that the breakfast-hour must be long past and that they had already slept for a part of the day.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">“My legs are quite numbed,” said Gourel, “and my feet feel as if they were on ice. </span><span id="kobo.383.2">What a funny sensation!” </span><span id="kobo.383.3">He bent down to rub them and went on: </span><span id="kobo.383.4">“Why, it’s not on ice that my feet were, but in water.</span><span id="kobo.383.5">﻿ ﻿… Look, chief﻿ ﻿… there’s a regular pool near the first door.</span><span id="kobo.383.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“Soaked through,” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.384.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.385.1"> Lenormand replied. </span><span id="kobo.385.2">“We’ll go back to the second door; you can dry yourself﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“But what are you doing, chief?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">“Do you think I am going to allow myself to be buried alive in this vault?</span><span id="kobo.388.2">﻿ ﻿… Not if I know it; I haven’t reached the age!</span><span id="kobo.388.3">﻿ ﻿… As the two doors are closed, let us try to pass through the walls.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">One by one he loosened the stones that stood out at the height of his hand, in the hope of contriving another gallery that would slope upwards to the level of the soil. </span><span id="kobo.389.2">But the work was long and painful, for in this part of the tunnel, as he perceived the stones were cemented.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">“Chief﻿ ﻿… chief,” stammered Gourel, in a stifled voice.</span><span id="kobo.390.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">“You are standing with your feet in the water.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">“Nonsense!</span><span id="kobo.393.2">﻿ ﻿… Why, so I am!</span><span id="kobo.393.3">﻿ ﻿… Well, it can’t be helped.</span><span id="kobo.393.4">﻿ ﻿… I’ll dry them in the sun.</span><span id="kobo.393.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">“But don’t you see?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“Why, it’s rising, chief, it’s rising!</span><span id="kobo.396.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">“What’s rising?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“The water!</span><span id="kobo.398.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.399.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.400.1"> Lenormand felt a shudder pass over his skin. </span><span id="kobo.400.2">He suddenly understood. </span><span id="kobo.400.3">It was not a casual trickling through, as he had thought, but a carefully-prepared flood, mechanically, irresistibly produced by some infernal system.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“Oh, the scoundrel!” </span><span id="kobo.402.2">he snarled. </span><span id="kobo.402.3">“If ever I lay hands on him﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">“Yes, yes, chief, but we must first get out of this.</span><span id="kobo.403.2">﻿ ﻿… And, as far as I can see﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">Gourel seemed completely prostrated, incapable of having an idea, of proposing a plan.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.405.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.406.1"> Lenormand knelt down on the ground and measured the rate at which the water was rising. </span><span id="kobo.406.2">A quarter, or thereabouts, of the first door was covered; and the water was halfway toward the second door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">“The progress is slow, but uninterrupted,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.408.2">“In a few hours it will be over our heads.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.409.1">“But this is terrible, chief, it’s horrible!” </span><span id="kobo.409.2">moaned Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.410.1">“Oh, look here, don’t come boring me with your lamentations, do you understand? </span><span id="kobo.410.2">Cry, if it amuses you, but don’t let me hear you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“It’s the hunger that weakens me, chief; my brain’s going round.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.412.1">“Bite your fist!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">As Gourel said, the position was terrible; and, if </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.413.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.414.1"> Lenormand had had less energy, he would have abandoned the vain struggle. </span><span id="kobo.414.2">What was to be done? </span><span id="kobo.414.3">It was no use hoping that Ribeira would have the charity to let them out. </span><span id="kobo.414.4">It was no use either hoping that the brothers Doudeville would rescue them, for the inspectors did not know of the existence of the tunnel. </span><span id="kobo.414.5">So no hope remained﻿ ﻿… no hope but that of an impossible miracle.</span><span id="kobo.414.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.416.1">“Come, come,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.416.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.417.1"> Lenormand, “this is too silly. </span><span id="kobo.417.2">We’re not going to kick the bucket here! </span><span id="kobo.417.3">Hang it all, there must be something!</span><span id="kobo.417.4">﻿ ﻿… Show me a light, Gourel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">Flattening himself against the second door, he examined it from top to bottom, in every corner. </span><span id="kobo.419.2">There was an enormous bolt on that side, just as there probably was on the other. </span><span id="kobo.419.3">He unfastened the screws with the blade of his knife; and the bolt came off in his hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">“And what next?” </span><span id="kobo.420.2">asked Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">“What next?” </span><span id="kobo.421.2">he echoed. </span><span id="kobo.421.3">“Well, this bolt is made of iron, pretty long and very nearly pointed. </span><span id="kobo.421.4">Certainly, it’s not as good as a pickaxe, but it’s better than nothing and﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.422.1">Without finishing his sentence, he drove the implement into the sidewall of the tunnel, a little in front of the pillar of masonry that supported the hinges of the door. </span><span id="kobo.422.2">As he expected, once he had passed the first layer of cement and stones, he found soft earth:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.423.1">“To work!” </span><span id="kobo.423.2">he cried.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">“Certainly, chief, but would you explain﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“It’s quite simple. </span><span id="kobo.425.2">I want to dig round this pillar a passage, three or four yards long, which will join the tunnel on the other side of the door and allow us to escape.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">“But it will take us hours; and meanwhile, the water is rising.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">“Show me a light, Gourel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">“In twenty minutes, or half an hour at most, it will have reached our feet.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">“Show me a light, Gourel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.430.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.431.1"> Lenormand’s idea was correct and, with some little exertion, by pulling the earth, which he first loosened with his implement, towards him and making it fall into the tunnel, he was not long in digging a hole large enough to slip into.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">“It’s my turn, chief!” </span><span id="kobo.433.2">said Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">“Aha, you’re returning to life, I see! </span><span id="kobo.434.2">Well, fire away!</span><span id="kobo.434.3">﻿ ﻿… You have only to follow the shape of the pillar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">At that moment, the water was up to their ankles. </span><span id="kobo.435.2">Would they have time to complete the work begun?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.436.1">It became more difficult as they went on, for the earth which they disturbed was in their way; and, lying flat on their stomachs in the passage, they were obliged at every instant to remove the rubbish that obstructed them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">After two hours, the work was perhaps three-quarters through, but the water now covered their legs. </span><span id="kobo.437.2">Another hour and it would reach the opening of the hole which they were digging. </span><span id="kobo.437.3">And that would mean the end!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">Gourel, who was exhausted by the want of food and who was too stout to move with any freedom in that ever-narrower passage, had had to give up. </span><span id="kobo.438.2">He no longer stirred, trembling with anguish at feeling that icy water which was gradually swallowing him up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">As for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.439.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.440.1"> Lenormand, he worked on with indefatigable ardor. </span><span id="kobo.440.2">It was a terrible job, this ants’ work performed in the stifling darkness. </span><span id="kobo.440.3">His hands were bleeding. </span><span id="kobo.440.4">He was fainting with hunger. </span><span id="kobo.440.5">The insufficiency of the air hampered his breathing; and, from time to time, Gourel’s sighs reminded him of the awful danger that threatened him at the bottom of his hole.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">But nothing could discourage him, for now he again found opposite him those cemented stones which formed the sidewall of the gallery. </span><span id="kobo.442.2">It was the most difficult part, but the end was at hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“It’s rising,” cried Gourel, in a choking voice, “it’s rising!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.444.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.445.1"> Lenormand redoubled his efforts. </span><span id="kobo.445.2">Suddenly the stem of the bolt which he was using leapt out into space. </span><span id="kobo.445.3">The passage was dug. </span><span id="kobo.445.4">He had now only to widen it, which became much easier once he was able to shoot the materials in front of him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">Gourel, mad with terror, was howling like a dying beast. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.447.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.448.1"> Lenormand paid no attention to him. </span><span id="kobo.448.2">Safety was at hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">Nevertheless, he had a few seconds of anxiety when he perceived, by the sound of the materials falling, that this part of the tunnel was also under water, which was natural, as the door did not form a sufficiently tight-fitting barrier. </span><span id="kobo.450.2">But what did it matter! </span><span id="kobo.450.3">The outlet was free. </span><span id="kobo.450.4">One last effort﻿ ﻿… he passed through.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.451.1">“Come, Gourel,” he cried, returning to fetch his companion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.452.1">He dragged him, half dead, by the wrists:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.453.1">“Come along, booby, pull yourself together! </span><span id="kobo.453.2">We are saved.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.454.1">“Do you really think so, chief?</span><span id="kobo.454.2">﻿ ﻿… The water’s up to our chests.</span><span id="kobo.454.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.455.1">“Never mind, as long as it’s not over our mouths.</span><span id="kobo.455.2">﻿ ﻿… Where’s your lantern?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.456.1">“It’s not working.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.457.1">“No matter.” </span><span id="kobo.457.2">He gave an exclamation of delight. </span><span id="kobo.457.3">“One step﻿ ﻿… two steps!</span><span id="kobo.457.4">﻿ ﻿… A staircase.</span><span id="kobo.457.5">﻿ ﻿… At last!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.458.1">They emerged from the water, that accursed water which had almost swallowed them up; and it was a delicious sensation, a release that sent up their spirits.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">“Stop!” </span><span id="kobo.459.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.459.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.460.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.462.1">His head had knocked against something. </span><span id="kobo.462.2">With arms outstretched, he pushed against the obstacle, which yielded at once. </span><span id="kobo.462.3">It was the flap of a trap-door; and, when this trap-door was opened, he found himself in a cellar into which the light of a fine night filtered through an air-hole.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.463.1">He threw back the flap and climbed the last treads.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.464.1">Then a veil fell over his eyes. </span><span id="kobo.464.2">Arms seized upon him. </span><span id="kobo.464.3">He felt himself as it were wrapped in a sheet, in a sort of sack, and then fastened with cords.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.465.1">“Now for the other one!” </span><span id="kobo.465.2">said a voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.466.1">The same operation must have been performed on Gourel; and the same voice said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.467.1">“If they call out, kill them at once. </span><span id="kobo.467.2">Have you your dagger?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.468.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">“Come along. </span><span id="kobo.469.2">You two, take this one﻿ ﻿… you two, that one.</span><span id="kobo.469.3">﻿ ﻿… No light﻿ ﻿… and no noise either.</span><span id="kobo.469.4">﻿ ﻿… It would be a serious matter. </span><span id="kobo.469.5">They’ve been searching the garden next door since this morning﻿ ﻿… there are ten or fifteen of them knocking about.</span><span id="kobo.469.6">﻿ ﻿… Go back to the house, Gertrude, and, if the least thing happens, telephone to me in Paris.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.470.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.471.1"> Lenormand felt that he was being lifted up and carried and, a moment after, that he was in the open air.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.473.1">“Bring the cart nearer,” said a voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.474.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.475.1"> Lenormand heard the sound of a horse and cart.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.477.1">He was laid out on some boards. </span><span id="kobo.477.2">Gourel was hoisted up beside him. </span><span id="kobo.477.3">The horse started at a trot.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.478.1">The drive lasted about half an hour.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.479.1">“Halt!” </span><span id="kobo.479.2">commanded the voice. </span><span id="kobo.479.3">“Lift them out. </span><span id="kobo.479.4">Here, driver, turn the cart so that the tail touches the parapet of the bridge.</span><span id="kobo.479.5">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.479.6">﻿ ﻿… No boats on the river? </span><span id="kobo.479.7">Sure? </span><span id="kobo.479.8">Then let’s waste no time.</span><span id="kobo.479.9">﻿ ﻿… Oh, have you fastened some stones to them?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.480.1">“Yes, paving-stones.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.481.1">“Right away, then! </span><span id="kobo.481.2">Commend your soul to God, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.481.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.482.1"> Lenormand, and pray for me, Parbury-Ribeira, better known by the name of Baron Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.482.2">Are you ready? </span><span id="kobo.482.3">All right? </span><span id="kobo.482.4">Well, here’s wishing you a pleasant journey, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.483.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.484.1"> Lenormand!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.486.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.487.1"> Lenormand was placed on the parapet. </span><span id="kobo.487.2">Someone gave him a push. </span><span id="kobo.487.3">He felt himself falling into space and he still heard the voice chuckling:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.489.1">“A pleasant journey!”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.491.1">Ten seconds later it was Sergeant Gourel’s turn.</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>