<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>V: M. Lenormand at Work</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-5" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">V</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><abbr class="calibre17"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.3.1" class="kobospan"> Lenormand at Work</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.6.1">On the morning of the 31st of May, all the newspapers reminded their readers that Lupin, in a letter addressed to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.6.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.7.1"> Lenormand, had announced the escape of the messenger Jérôme for that date. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">And one of them summed up the situation, as it then stood, in very able terms:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.9.1">“The horrible carnage at the Palace Hotel took place as far back as the 17th of April. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">What has been discovered since? </span><span id="kobo.9.3">Nothing.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“There were three clues: </span><span id="kobo.10.2">the cigarette-case, the initials L and M and the parcel of clothes left behind in the office of the hotel. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">What advantage has been taken of these clues? </span><span id="kobo.10.4">None.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“It appears that the police suspect one of the visitors who was staying on the first floor and who disappeared in a doubtful manner. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">Have they found him? </span><span id="kobo.11.3">Have they established his identity? </span><span id="kobo.11.4">No.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“The tragedy, therefore, remains as mysterious as at the beginning, the gloom is impenetrable.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“To complete the picture, we are told that dissension prevails between the prefect of police and his subordinate, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.13.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.14.1"> Lenormand, and that the latter, finding himself less vigorously supported by the prime minister, virtually sent in his resignation several days ago. </span><span id="kobo.14.2">According to our information, the conduct of the Kesselbach case is now in the hands of the deputy-chief of the detective-service, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.15.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.16.1"> Weber, a personal enemy of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.17.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.18.1"> Lenormand’s.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“In short, disorder and confusion reign; and this in the face of Lupin, who stands for method, energy and steadfastness of mind.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“What conclusion do we draw from these facts? </span><span id="kobo.21.2">Briefly, this: </span><span id="kobo.21.3">Lupin will release his accomplice today, the 31st of May, as he foretold.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">This conclusion, which was echoed in all the other newspapers, was also the conclusion at which the general public had arrived. </span><span id="kobo.23.2">And we must take it that the threat was not considered devoid of importance in high places, for the prefect of police and, in the absence of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.23.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.24.1"> Lenormand, who was said to be unwell, the deputy-chief of the detective-service, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.25.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.26.1"> Weber, had adopted the most stringent measures, both at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.27.1">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.28.1"> and at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.29.1">Santé</span><span id="kobo.30.1"> Prison, where the prisoner was confined.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">They did not dare, for sheer reasons of shame, to suspend on that particular day the examinations conducted daily by </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.32.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.33.1"> Formerie; but, from the prison to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.34.1">Boulevard du Palais</span><span id="kobo.35.1">, a regular mobilization of police-forces guarded the streets along the line.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">To the intense astonishment of one and all, the 31st of May passed and the threatened escape did not take place.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">One thing did happen, an attempt to execute the plan, as was betrayed by a block of tramway-cars, omnibuses and drays along the road taken by the prison-van and the unaccountable breaking of one of the wheels of the van itself. </span><span id="kobo.38.2">But the attempt assumed no more definite form.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">Lupin, therefore, had met with a check. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">The public felt almost disappointed and the police triumphed loudly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">On the next day, Saturday, an incredible rumour spread through the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.40.2">Palais</span><span id="kobo.41.1"> and the newspaper-offices: </span><span id="kobo.41.2">Jérôme the messenger had disappeared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">Was it possible? </span><span id="kobo.43.2">Although the special editions confirmed the news, people refused to believe it. </span><span id="kobo.43.3">But, at six o’clock, a note published by the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.43.4">Dépêche du Soir</span></i><span id="kobo.44.1"> made it official:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.46.1">“We have received the following communication signed by Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.46.2">The special stamp affixed to it, in accordance with the circular which Lupin recently sent to the press, guarantees the genuineness of the document:</span></p>
				<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header class="calibre18">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.47.1">“ ‘To the Editor of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.47.2">Dépêche du Soir</span></i><span id="kobo.48.1">.</span></p>
					</header>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:recipient"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Sir,</span></p>
					<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“ ‘Pray make my apologies to the public for not keeping my word yesterday. </span><span id="kobo.52.2">I remembered, at the last moment, that the 31st of May fell on a Friday! </span><span id="kobo.52.3">Could I set my friend at liberty on a Friday? </span><span id="kobo.52.4">I did not think it right to assume that responsibility.</span></p>
					<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“ ‘I must also apologize for not on this occasion explaining, with my customary frankness, how this little event was managed. </span><span id="kobo.53.2">My process is so ingenious and so simple that I fear lest, if I revealed it, every criminal should be inspired by it. </span><span id="kobo.53.3">How surprised people will be on the day when I am free to speak! </span><span id="kobo.53.4">“Is that all?” </span><span id="kobo.53.5">I shall be asked. </span><span id="kobo.53.6">That is all; but it had to be thought of.</span></p>
					<footer class="calibre10">
						<div epub:type="z3998:valediction" class="epub-type-titlepage">
							<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.54.1">“ ‘Permit me to be, Sir,</span></p>
							<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“ ‘Your obedient servant,</span></p>
						</div>
						<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature1" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.57.1">“ ‘Arsène Lupin.’ ”</span></p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">An hour later, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.61.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.62.1"> Lenormand was rung up on the telephone and informed that Valenglay, the prime minister, wished to see him at the Ministry of the Interior.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.65.1">“How well you’re looking, my dear Lenormand! </span><span id="kobo.65.2">And I who thought that you were ill and dared not leave your room!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“I am not ill, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.66.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.67.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“So you were sulking in your tent!</span><span id="kobo.69.2">﻿ ﻿… But you were always a bad-tempered fellow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“I confess to the bad temper, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.70.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.71.1">, but not to the sulking.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“But you stay at home! </span><span id="kobo.73.2">And Lupin takes advantage of it to release his friends.</span><span id="kobo.73.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“How could I stop him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">“How? </span><span id="kobo.75.2">Why, Lupin’s trick was of the plainest. </span><span id="kobo.75.3">In accordance with his usual method, he announced the date of the escape beforehand; everybody believed in it; an apparent attempt was planned; the escape was not made; and, on the next day, when nobody is thinking about it﻿—whoosh!</span><span id="kobo.75.4">﻿—the bird takes flight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.76.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.77.1">,” said the chief of the detective-service, solemnly, “Lupin disposes of such means that we are not in a position to prevent what he has decided on. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">The escape was mathematically certain. </span><span id="kobo.77.3">I preferred to pass the hand﻿ ﻿… and leave the laughter for others to face.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">Valenglay chuckled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“It’s a fact that </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.80.2">Monsieur le Préfet</span><span id="kobo.81.1"> de Police and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.82.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.83.1"> Weber cannot be enjoying themselves at the present moment.</span><span id="kobo.83.2">﻿ ﻿… But, when all is said, can you explain to me, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.84.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.85.1"> Lenormand﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“All that we know, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.87.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.88.1">, is that the escape took place from the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.89.1">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.90.1">. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">The prisoner was brought in a prison-van and taken to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.91.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.92.1"> Formerie’s room. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">He left </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.93.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.94.1"> Formerie’s room, but he did not leave the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.95.1">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.96.1">. </span><span id="kobo.96.2">And yet nobody knows what became of him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“It’s most bewildering.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Most bewildering.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“And has nothing else been discovered?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.101.2">The inner corridor leading to the examining magistrates’ rooms was blocked by an absolutely unprecedented crowd of prisoners, warders, counsel and doorkeepers; and it was discovered that all those people had received forged notices to appear at the same hour. </span><span id="kobo.101.3">On the other hand, not one of the examining-magistrates who were supposed to have summoned them sat in his room that day; and this because of forged notices from the public prosecutor’s office, sending them to every part of Paris﻿ ﻿… and of the outskirts.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“Is that all?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.103.2">Two municipal guards and a prisoner were seen to cross the courtyards. </span><span id="kobo.103.3">A cab was waiting for them outside and all three stepped in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">“And your supposition, Lenormand, your opinion.</span><span id="kobo.104.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“My supposition, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.105.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.106.1">, is that the two municipal guards were accomplices who, profiting by the disorder in the corridor, took the place of the three warders. </span><span id="kobo.106.2">And my opinion is that this escape succeeded only through such special circumstances and so strange a combination of facts that we must look upon the most unlikely cases of complicity as absolutely certain. </span><span id="kobo.106.3">Lupin, for that matter, has connections at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.107.1">Palais</span><span id="kobo.108.1"> that balk all our calculations. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">He has agents in your ministry. </span><span id="kobo.108.3">He has agents at the Prefecture of Police. </span><span id="kobo.108.4">He has agents around me. </span><span id="kobo.108.5">It is a formidable organization, a detective-service a thousand times more clever, more daring, more varied and more supple than that under my own orders.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">“And you stand this, Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“No, I do not.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Then why this slackness on your part since the beginning of the case? </span><span id="kobo.112.2">What have you done against Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“I have prepared for the struggle.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Ah, capital! </span><span id="kobo.114.2">And, while you were preparing, he was acting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“So was I.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“And do you know anything?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“I know a great deal.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“What? </span><span id="kobo.118.2">Speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">Leaning on his stick, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.119.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.120.1"> Lenormand took a little contemplative walk across the spacious room. </span><span id="kobo.120.2">Then he sat down opposite Valenglay, brushed the facings of his olive-green coat with his fingertips, settled his spectacles on his nose and said, plainly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.122.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.123.1"> le Président</span></span><span id="kobo.125.1">, I hold three trump-cards in my hand. </span><span id="kobo.125.2">First, I know the name under which Arsène Lupin is hiding at this moment, the name under which he lived on the Boulevard Haussmann, receiving his assistants daily, reconstructing and directing his gang.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“But then why, in heaven’s name, don’t you arrest him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">“I did not receive these particulars until later. </span><span id="kobo.128.2">The prince﻿—let us call him Prince Dash﻿—has disappeared. </span><span id="kobo.128.3">He is abroad, on other business.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“And, if he does not return﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“The position which he occupies, the manner in which he has flung himself into the Kesselbach case, necessitate his return and under the same name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Nevertheless﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.132.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.133.1">, I come to my second trump. </span><span id="kobo.133.2">I have at last discovered Pierre Leduc.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“Nonsense!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“Or rather Lupin discovered him, and before disappearing, settled him in a little villa in the neighborhood of Paris.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“By Jove! </span><span id="kobo.137.2">But how did you know﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“Oh, easily! </span><span id="kobo.138.2">Lupin has placed two of his accomplices with Pierre Leduc, to watch him and defend him. </span><span id="kobo.138.3">Now these accomplices are two of my own detectives, two brothers whom I employ in the greatest secrecy and who will hand him over to me at the first opportunity!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Well done you! </span><span id="kobo.139.2">So that﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">“So that, as Pierre Leduc, we may say, is the central point of the efforts of all those who are trying to solve the famous Kesselbach secret, I shall, sooner or later, through Pierre Leduc, catch, first, the author of the treble murder, because that miscreant substituted himself for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.140.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.141.1"> Kesselbach in the accomplishment of an immense scheme and because </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.142.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.143.1"> Kesselbach had to find Pierre Leduc in order to be able to accomplish that scheme; and, secondly, Arsène Lupin, because Arsène Lupin is pursuing the same object.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“Splendid! </span><span id="kobo.145.2">Pierre Leduc is the bait which you are throwing to the enemy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“And the fish is biting, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.146.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.147.1">. </span><span id="kobo.147.2">I have just had word that a suspicious person was seen, a short time ago, prowling round the little villa where Pierre Leduc is living under the protection of my officers. </span><span id="kobo.147.3">I shall be on the spot in four hours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“And the third trump, Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.150.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.151.1">, a letter arrived yesterday, addressed to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.152.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.153.1"> Rudolf Kesselbach, which I intercepted.</span><span id="kobo.153.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Intercepted, eh? </span><span id="kobo.155.2">You’re getting on!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“Yes, I intercepted it, opened it and kept it for myself. </span><span id="kobo.156.2">Here it is. </span><span id="kobo.156.3">It is dated two months back. </span><span id="kobo.156.4">It bears the Capetown postmark and contains these words: </span><span id="kobo.156.5">‘My dear Rudolf, I shall be in Paris on the 1st of June and in just as wretched a plight as when you came to my assistance. </span><span id="kobo.156.6">But I have great hopes of this Pierre Leduc affair of which I told you. </span><span id="kobo.156.7">What a strange story it is! </span><span id="kobo.156.8">Have you found the man I mean? </span><span id="kobo.156.9">Where do we stand? </span><span id="kobo.156.10">I am most anxious to know.’ </span><span id="kobo.156.11">The letter is signed, ‘Steinweg.’ </span><span id="kobo.156.12">The first of June,” continued </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.156.13">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.157.1"> Lenormand, “is today. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">I have ordered one of my inspectors to hunt me out this Steinweg. </span><span id="kobo.157.3">I have no doubt that he will succeed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“Nor I, no doubt at all,” cried Valenglay, rising from his chair, “and I make you every apology, my dear Lenormand, and my humble confession: </span><span id="kobo.159.2">I was on the point of letting you slide﻿ ﻿… for good and all! </span><span id="kobo.159.3">Tomorrow I was expecting the prefect of police and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.159.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.160.1"> Weber.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“I knew that, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.162.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.163.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Impossible!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“But for that, should I have put myself out? </span><span id="kobo.166.2">You now see my plan of campaign. </span><span id="kobo.166.3">On the one side, I am setting traps in which the murderer will be caught sooner or later. </span><span id="kobo.166.4">Pierre Leduc or Steinweg will deliver him into my hands. </span><span id="kobo.166.5">On the other side, I am on Arsène Lupin’s heels. </span><span id="kobo.166.6">Two of his agents are in my pay and he believes them to be his most devoted helpers. </span><span id="kobo.166.7">In addition to this, he is working for me, because he is pursuing the perpetrator of the threefold crime as I am. </span><span id="kobo.166.8">Only, he imagines that he is dishing me, whereas it is I who am dishing him. </span><span id="kobo.166.9">So I shall succeed, but on one condition.</span><span id="kobo.166.10">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“What is that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“That I am given free scope and allowed to act according to the needs of the moment, without troubling about the public, who are growing impatient, or my superiors, who are intriguing against me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“I agree.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“In that case, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.170.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.171.1">, in a few days from this I shall be the victor﻿ ﻿… or I shall be dead.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.174.1">At Saint-Cloud. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">A little villa situated on one of the highest points of the upland, in an unfrequented road.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">It was eleven o’clock at night. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.175.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.176.1"> Lenormand left his car at Saint-Cloud and walked cautiously along the road. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">A shadow appeared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">“Is that you, Gourel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">“Yes, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“Did you tell the brothers Doudeville that I was coming?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“Yes, your room is ready, you can go to bed and sleep﻿ ﻿… unless they try to carry off Pierre Leduc tonight, which would not surprise me, considering the behavior of the fellow whom the Doudevilles saw.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">They walked across the garden, softly entered the house and went up to the first floor. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">The two brothers, Jean and Jacques Doudeville, were there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“No news of Prince Sernine?” </span><span id="kobo.183.2">asked Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“No, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“What about Pierre Leduc?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“He spends the whole day lying flat on his back in his room on the ground-floor, or else in the garden. </span><span id="kobo.186.2">He never comes up to see us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“Is he better?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“Much better. </span><span id="kobo.188.2">The rest has made a great change in his appearance.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“Is he wholly devoted to Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“To Prince Sernine, rather, for he does not suspect that the two are one and the same man. </span><span id="kobo.190.2">At least, I suppose so. </span><span id="kobo.190.3">One never knows, with him. </span><span id="kobo.190.4">He does not speak at all. </span><span id="kobo.190.5">Oh, he’s a queer fish! </span><span id="kobo.190.6">There’s only one person who has the gift of cheering him up, of making him talk and even laugh. </span><span id="kobo.190.7">That’s a young girl from Garches, to whom Prince Sernine introduced him. </span><span id="kobo.190.8">Geneviève Ernemont her name is. </span><span id="kobo.190.9">She has been here three times already﻿ ﻿… she was here today.” </span><span id="kobo.190.10">He added, jestingly, “I believe there’s a little flirting going on.</span><span id="kobo.190.11">﻿ ﻿… It’s like his highness Prince Sernine and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.190.12">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.191.1"> Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.191.2">﻿ ﻿… It seems he’s making eyes at her!</span><span id="kobo.191.3">﻿ ﻿… That devil of a Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.193.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.194.1"> Lenormand did not reply. </span><span id="kobo.194.2">But it was obvious that all these details, to which he seemed to attach no importance, were noted in the recesses of his memory, to be used whenever he might need to draw the logical inferences from them. </span><span id="kobo.194.3">He lit a cigar, chewed it without smoking it, lit it again and dropped it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">He asked two or three more questions and then, dressed as he was, threw himself on his bed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“If the least thing happens, let me be awakened.</span><span id="kobo.197.2">﻿ ﻿… If not, I shall sleep through the night.</span><span id="kobo.197.3">﻿ ﻿… Go to your posts, all of you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">The others left the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">An hour passed, two hours.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">Suddenly, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.200.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.201.1"> Lenormand felt someone touch him and Gourel said to him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“Get up, chief; they have opened the gate.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“One man or two?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“I only saw one﻿ ﻿… the moon appeared just then﻿ ﻿… he crouched down against a hedge.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“And the brothers Doudeville?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">“I sent them out by the back. </span><span id="kobo.207.2">They will cut off his retreat when the time comes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">Gourel took </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.208.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.209.1"> Lenormand’s hand, led him downstairs and then into a little dark room:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“Don’t stir, chief; we are in Pierre Leduc’s dressing-room. </span><span id="kobo.211.2">I am opening the door of the recess in which his bed stands.</span><span id="kobo.211.3">﻿ ﻿… Don’t be afraid﻿ ﻿… he has taken his veronal as he does every evening﻿ ﻿… nothing can wake him. </span><span id="kobo.211.4">Come this way.</span><span id="kobo.211.5">﻿ ﻿… It’s a good hiding-place, isn’t it?</span><span id="kobo.211.6">﻿ ﻿… These are the curtains of his bed.</span><span id="kobo.211.7">﻿ ﻿… From here you can see the window and the whole side of the room between the window and the bed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">The casement stood open and admitted a vague light, which became very precise at times, when the moon burst through her veil of clouds. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">The two men did not take their eyes from the empty window-frame, feeling certain that the event which they were awaiting would come from that side.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">A slight, creaking noise﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“He is climbing the trellis,” whispered Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“Is it high?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“Six feet or so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">The creaking became more distinct.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“Go, Gourel,” muttered </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.218.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.219.1"> Lenormand, “find the Doudevilles, bring them back to the foot of the wall and bar the road to anyone who tries to get down this way.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">Gourel went. </span><span id="kobo.221.2">At the same moment, a head appeared at the level of the window. </span><span id="kobo.221.3">Then a leg was flung over the balcony. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.221.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.222.1"> Lenormand distinguished a slenderly-built man, below the middle height, dressed in dark colours and without a hat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">The man turned and, leaning over the balcony, looked for a few seconds into space, as though to make sure that no danger threatened him. </span><span id="kobo.224.2">Then he stooped down and lay at full length on the floor. </span><span id="kobo.224.3">He appeared motionless. </span><span id="kobo.224.4">But soon </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.224.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.225.1"> Lenormand realized that the still blacker shadow which he formed against the surrounding darkness was coming forward, nearer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">It reached the bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.228.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.229.1"> Lenormand had an impression that he could hear the man’s breathing and, at the same time, that he could just see his eyes, keen, glittering eyes, which pierced the darkness like shafts of fire and which themselves could see through that same darkness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">Pierre Leduc gave a deep sigh and turned over.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">A fresh silence.</span><span id="kobo.232.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">The man had glided along the bed with imperceptible movements and his dark outline now stood out against the whiteness of the sheets that hung down to the floor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.234.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.235.1"> Lenormand could have touched him by putting out his arm. </span><span id="kobo.235.2">This time, he clearly distinguished the breathing, which alternated with that of the sleeper, and he had the illusion that he also heard the sound of a heart beating.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">Suddenly, a flash of light.</span><span id="kobo.237.2">﻿ ﻿… The man had pressed the spring of an electric lantern; and Pierre Leduc was lit full in the face, but the man remained in the shade, so that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.237.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.238.1"> Lenormand was unable to see his features.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">All that he saw was something that shone in the bright space; and he shuddered. </span><span id="kobo.240.2">It was the blade of a knife; and that thin, tapering knife, more like a stiletto than a dagger, seemed to him identical with the weapon which he had picked up by the body of Chapman, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.240.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.241.1"> Kesselbach’s secretary.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">He put forth all his willpower to restrain himself from springing upon the man. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">He wanted first to know what the man had come to do.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">The hand was raised. </span><span id="kobo.244.2">Was he going to strike? </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.244.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.245.1"> Lenormand calculated the distance in order to stop the blow.</span><span id="kobo.245.2">﻿ ﻿… But no, it was not a murderous gesture, but one of caution. </span><span id="kobo.245.3">The hand would only fall if Pierre Leduc stirred or tried to call out. </span><span id="kobo.245.4">And the man bent over the sleeper, as though he were examining something.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“The right cheek,” thought </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.247.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.248.1"> Lenormand, “the scar on the right cheek.</span><span id="kobo.248.2">﻿ ﻿… He wants to make sure that it is really Pierre Leduc.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">The man had turned a little to one side, so that only his shoulders were visible. </span><span id="kobo.250.2">But his clothes, his overcoat, were so near that they brushed against the curtains behind which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.250.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.251.1"> Lenormand was hiding.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“One movement on his part,” thought the chief detective, “a thrill of alarm; and I shall collar him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">But the man, entirely absorbed in his examination, did not stir. </span><span id="kobo.254.2">At last, after shifting the dagger to the hand that held the lantern, he raised the sheet, at first hardly at all, then a little more, then more still, until the sleeper’s left arm was uncovered and the hand laid bare. </span><span id="kobo.254.3">The flash of the lantern shone upon the hand. </span><span id="kobo.254.4">The fingers lay outspread. </span><span id="kobo.254.5">The little finger was cut on the second joint.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">Again Pierre Leduc made a movement. </span><span id="kobo.255.2">The light was immediately put out; and, for an instant, the man remained beside the bed, motionless, standing straight up. </span><span id="kobo.255.3">Would he make up his mind to strike? </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.255.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.256.1"> Lenormand underwent the agony of the crime which he could so easily prevent, but which he did not want to forestall before the very last second.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">A long, a very long silence. </span><span id="kobo.258.2">Suddenly, he saw or rather fancied that he saw an arm uplifted. </span><span id="kobo.258.3">Instinctively he moved, stretching his hand above the sleeper. </span><span id="kobo.258.4">In making this gesture, he hit against the man.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">A dull cry. </span><span id="kobo.259.2">The fellow struck out at space, defended himself at random and fled toward the window. </span><span id="kobo.259.3">But </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.259.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.260.1"> Lenormand had leapt upon him and had his two arms around the man’s shoulders.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">He at once felt him yielding and, as the weaker of the two, powerless in Lenormand’s hands, trying to avoid the struggle and to slip from between his arms. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">Lenormand, exerting all his strength, held him flat against his chest, bent him in two and stretched him on his back on the floor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Ah, I’ve got him, I’ve got him!” </span><span id="kobo.263.2">he muttered triumphantly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">And he felt a singular elation at imprisoning that terrifying criminal, that unspeakable monster, in his irresistible grip. </span><span id="kobo.264.2">He felt him living and quivering, enraged and desperate, their two lives mingled, their breaths blended:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“Who are you?” </span><span id="kobo.265.2">he asked. </span><span id="kobo.265.3">“Who are you?</span><span id="kobo.265.4">﻿ ﻿… You’ll have to speak.</span><span id="kobo.265.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">And he clasped the enemy’s body with still greater force, for he had an impression that that body was diminishing between his arms, that it was vanishing. </span><span id="kobo.266.2">He gripped harder﻿ ﻿… and harder.</span><span id="kobo.266.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">And suddenly he shuddered from head to foot. </span><span id="kobo.267.2">He had felt, he still felt a tiny prick in the throat.</span><span id="kobo.267.3">﻿ ﻿… In his exasperation, he gripped harder yet: </span><span id="kobo.267.4">the pain increased! </span><span id="kobo.267.5">And he observed that the man had succeeded in twisting one arm round, slipping his hand to his chest and holding the dagger on end. </span><span id="kobo.267.6">The arm, it was true, was incapable of motion; but the closer </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.267.7">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.268.1"> Lenormand tightened his grip, the deeper did the point of the dagger enter the proffered flesh.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">He flung back his head a little to escape the point: </span><span id="kobo.270.2">the point followed the movement and the wound widened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">Then he moved no more, remembering the three crimes and all the alarming, atrocious and prophetic things represented by that same little steel needle which was piercing his skin and which, in its turn, was implacably penetrating.</span><span id="kobo.271.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">Suddenly, he let go and gave a leap backwards. </span><span id="kobo.272.2">Then, at once, he tried to resume the offensive. </span><span id="kobo.272.3">It was too late. </span><span id="kobo.272.4">The man flung his legs across the windowsill and jumped.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“Look out, Gourel!” </span><span id="kobo.273.2">he cried, knowing that Gourel was there, ready to catch the fugitive.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">He leant out. </span><span id="kobo.274.2">A crunching of pebbles﻿ ﻿… a shadow between two trees, the slam of the gate.</span><span id="kobo.274.3">﻿ ﻿… And no other sound﻿ ﻿… no interference.</span><span id="kobo.274.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">Without giving a thought to Pierre Leduc, he called:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“Gourel!</span><span id="kobo.276.2">﻿ ﻿… Doudeville!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">No answer. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">The great silence of the countryside at night.</span><span id="kobo.277.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">In spite of himself, he continued to think of the treble murder, the steel dagger. </span><span id="kobo.278.2">But no, it was impossible, the man had not had time, had not even had the need to strike, as he had found the road clear.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.279.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.280.1"> Lenormand jumped out in his turn and, switching on his lantern, recognized Gourel lying on the ground:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“Damn it!” </span><span id="kobo.282.2">he swore. </span><span id="kobo.282.3">“If they’ve killed him, they’ll have to pay dearly for it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">But Gourel was not dead, only stunned; and, a few minutes later, he came to himself and growled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“Only a blow of the fist, chief﻿ ﻿… just a blow of the fist which caught me full in the chest. </span><span id="kobo.284.2">But what a fellow!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“There were two of them then?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">“Yes, a little one, who went up, and another, who took me unawares while I was watching.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“And the Doudevilles?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“Haven’t seen them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">One of them, Jacques, was found near the gate, bleeding from a punch in the jaw; the other a little farther, gasping for breath from a blow full on the chest.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“What is it? </span><span id="kobo.290.2">What happened?” </span><span id="kobo.290.3">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.290.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.291.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">Jacques said that his brother and he had knocked up against an individual who had crippled them before they had time to defend themselves.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“Was he alone?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“No; when he passed near us, he had a pal with him, shorter than himself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“Did you recognize the man who struck you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Judging by the breadth of his shoulders, I thought he might be the Englishman of the Palace Hotel, the one who left the hotel and whose traces we lost.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“The major?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“Yes, Major Parbury.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">After a moment’s reflection, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.300.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.301.1"> Lenormand said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“There is no doubt possible. </span><span id="kobo.303.2">There were two of them in the Kesselbach case: </span><span id="kobo.303.3">the man with the dagger, who committed the murders, and his accomplice, the major.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“That is what Prince Sernine thinks,” muttered Jacques Doudeville.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“And tonight,” continued the chief detective, “it is they again: </span><span id="kobo.305.2">the same two.” </span><span id="kobo.305.3">And he added, “So much the better. </span><span id="kobo.305.4">The chance of catching two criminals is a hundred times greater than the chance of catching one.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.306.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.307.1"> Lenormand attended to his men, had them put to bed and looked to see if the assailants had dropped anything or left any traces. </span><span id="kobo.307.2">He found nothing and went back to bed again himself.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">In the morning, as Gourel and the Doudevilles felt none the worse for their injuries, he told the two brothers to scour the neighborhood and himself set out with Gourel for Paris, in order to hurry matters on and give his orders.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.311.1">He lunched in his office. </span><span id="kobo.311.2">At two o’clock, he heard good news. </span><span id="kobo.311.3">One of his best detectives, Dieuzy, had picked up Steinweg, Rudolf Kesselbach’s correspondent, as the German was stepping out of a train from Marseilles.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“Is Dieuzy there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Yes, chief,” said Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">“He’s here with the German.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“Have them brought in to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">At that moment, the telephone-bell rang. </span><span id="kobo.315.2">It was Jean Doudeville, speaking from the post-office at Garches. </span><span id="kobo.315.3">The conversation did not take long:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“Is that you, Jean? </span><span id="kobo.316.2">Any news?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“Yes, chief, Major Parbury.</span><span id="kobo.317.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“We have found him. </span><span id="kobo.319.2">He has become a Spaniard and has darkened his skin. </span><span id="kobo.319.3">We have just seen him. </span><span id="kobo.319.4">He was entering the Garches free-school. </span><span id="kobo.319.5">He was received by that young lady﻿ ﻿… you know, the girl who knows Prince Sernine, Geneviève Ernemont.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“Thunder!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.321.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.322.1"> Lenormand let go the receiver, made a grab at his hat, flew into the passage, met Dieuzy and the German, shouted to them to meet him in his office at six o’clock, rushed down the stairs, followed by Gourel and two inspectors whom he picked up on the way, and dived into a taxicab:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">“Quick as you can to Garches﻿ ﻿… ten francs for yourself!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">He stopped the car a little before the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.325.2">Parc de Villeneuve</span><span id="kobo.326.1">, at the turn of the lane that led to the school. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">Jean Doudeville was waiting for him and at once exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">“He slipped away, ten minutes ago, by the other end of the lane.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“Alone?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">“No, with the girl.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.331.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.332.1"> Lenormand took Doudeville by the collar:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“Wretch! </span><span id="kobo.334.2">You let him go! </span><span id="kobo.334.3">But you ought to have﻿ ﻿… you ought to have﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“My brother is on his track.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“A lot of good that will do us! </span><span id="kobo.336.2">He’ll stick your brother. </span><span id="kobo.336.3">You’re no match for him, either of you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">He himself took the steering-wheel of the taxi, and resolutely drove into the lane, regardless of the cart-ruts and of the bushes on each side. </span><span id="kobo.337.2">They soon emerged on a parish-road, which took them to a crossway where five roads met. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.337.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.338.1"> Lenormand, without hesitation chose the one on the left, the Saint-Cucufa Road. </span><span id="kobo.338.2">As a matter of fact, at the top of the slope that runs down to the lake, they met the other Doudeville brother, who shouted:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“They are in a carriage﻿ ﻿… half a mile away.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">The chief did not stop. </span><span id="kobo.341.2">He sent the car flying down the incline, rushed along the bends, drove round the lake and suddenly uttered an exclamation of triumph. </span><span id="kobo.341.3">Right at the top of a little hill that stood in front of them, he had seen the hood of a carriage.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">Unfortunately, he had taken the wrong road and had to back the machine. </span><span id="kobo.342.2">When he reached the place where the roads branched, the carriage was still there, stationary. </span><span id="kobo.342.3">And, suddenly, while he was turning, he saw a girl spring from the carriage. </span><span id="kobo.342.4">A man appeared on the step. </span><span id="kobo.342.5">The girl stretched out her arm. </span><span id="kobo.342.6">Two reports rang out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">She had taken bad aim, without a doubt, for a head looked round the other side of the hood and the man, catching sight of the motor-cab, gave his horse a great lash with the whip and it started off at a gallop. </span><span id="kobo.343.2">The next moment, a turn of the road hid the carriage from sight.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.344.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.345.1"> Lenormand finished his tacking in a few seconds, darted straight up the incline, passed the girl without stopping and turned round boldly. </span><span id="kobo.345.2">He found himself on a steep, pebbly forest road, which ran down between dense woods and which could only be followed very slowly and with the greatest caution. </span><span id="kobo.345.3">But what did he care! </span><span id="kobo.345.4">Twenty yards in front of him, the carriage, a sort of two-wheeled cabriolet, was dancing over the stones, drawn, or rather held back, by a horse which knew enough only to go very carefully, feeling its way and taking no risks. </span><span id="kobo.345.5">There was nothing to fear; escape was impossible.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">And the two conveyances went shaking and jolting downhill. </span><span id="kobo.347.2">At one moment, they were so close together that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.347.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.348.1"> Lenormand thought of alighting and running with his men. </span><span id="kobo.348.2">But he felt the danger of putting on the brake on so steep a slope; and he went on, pressing the enemy closely, like a prey which one keeps within sight, within touch.</span><span id="kobo.348.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“We’ve got him, chief, we’ve got him!” </span><span id="kobo.350.2">muttered the inspectors, excited by the unexpected nature of the chase.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">At the bottom, the way flattened out into a road that ran towards the Seine, towards Bougival. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">The horse, on reaching level ground, set off at a jog-trot, without hurrying itself and keeping to the middle of the road.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">A violent effort shook the taxi. </span><span id="kobo.352.2">It appeared, instead of rolling, to proceed by bounds, like a darting fawn, and, slipping by the roadside slope, ready to smash any obstacle, it caught up the carriage, came level with it, passed it.</span><span id="kobo.352.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">An oath from </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.353.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.354.1"> Lenormand﻿ ﻿… shouts of fury.</span><span id="kobo.354.2">﻿ ﻿… The carriage was empty!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">The carriage was empty. </span><span id="kobo.356.2">The horse was going along peacefully, with the reins on its back, no doubt returning to the stable of some inn in the neighborhood, where it had been hired for the day.</span><span id="kobo.356.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">Suppressing his inward rage, the chief detective merely said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“The major must have jumped out during the few seconds when we lost sight of the carriage, at the top of the descent.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“We have only to beat the woods, chief, and we are sure﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“To return empty-handed. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">The beggar is far away by this time. </span><span id="kobo.360.3">He’s not one of those who are caught twice in one day. </span><span id="kobo.360.4">Oh, hang it all, hang it all!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">They went back to the young girl, whom they found in the company of Jacques Doudeville and apparently none the worse for her adventure. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.361.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.362.1"> Lenormand introduced himself, offered to take her back home and at once questioned her about the English major, Parbury.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.364.1">She expressed astonishment:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">“He is neither English nor a major; and his name is not Parbury.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“Then what is his name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">“Juan Ribeira. </span><span id="kobo.367.2">He is a Spaniard sent by his government to study the working of the French schools.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">“As you please. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">His name and his nationality are of no importance. </span><span id="kobo.368.3">He is the man we are looking for. </span><span id="kobo.368.4">Have you known him long?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“A fortnight or so. </span><span id="kobo.369.2">He had heard about a school which I have founded at Garches and he interested himself in my experiment to the extent of proposing to make me an annual grant, on the one condition that he might come from time to time to observe the progress of my pupils. </span><span id="kobo.369.3">I had not the right to refuse.</span><span id="kobo.369.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">“No, of course not; but you should have consulted your acquaintances. </span><span id="kobo.370.2">Is not Prince Sernine a friend of yours? </span><span id="kobo.370.3">He is a man of good counsel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“Oh, I have the greatest confidence in him; but he is abroad at present.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“Did you not know his address?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.373.2">And, besides, what could I have said to him? </span><span id="kobo.373.3">That gentleman behaved very well. </span><span id="kobo.373.4">It was not until today﻿ ﻿… But I don’t know if﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“I beg you, mademoiselle, speak frankly. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">You can have confidence in me also.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“Well, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.375.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.376.1"> Ribeira came just now. </span><span id="kobo.376.2">He told me that he had been sent by a French lady who was paying a short visit to Bougival, that this lady had a little girl whose education she would like to entrust to me and that she wished me to come and see her without delay. </span><span id="kobo.376.3">The thing seemed quite natural. </span><span id="kobo.376.4">And, as this is a holiday and as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.377.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.378.1"> Ribeira had hired a carriage which was waiting for him at the end of the road, I made no difficulty about accepting a seat in it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“But what was his object, after all?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">She blushed and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“To carry me off, quite simply. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">He confessed it to me after half an hour.</span><span id="kobo.382.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">“Do you know nothing about him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">“Does he live in Paris?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">“I suppose so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“Has he ever written to you? </span><span id="kobo.387.2">Do you happen to have a few lines in his handwriting, anything which he left behind, that may serve us as a clue?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">“No clue at all.</span><span id="kobo.388.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, wait a minute﻿ ﻿… but I don’t think that has any importance.</span><span id="kobo.388.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“Speak, speak﻿ ﻿… please.</span><span id="kobo.389.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">“Well, two days ago, the gentleman asked permission to use my typewriting machine; and he typed out﻿—with difficulty, for he evidently had no practice﻿—a letter of which I saw the address by accident.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“What was the address?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">“He was writing to the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.392.2">Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.393.1"> and he put about twenty stamps into the envelope.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… the agony-column, no doubt,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.395.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.396.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“I have today’s number with me, chief,” said Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.399.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.400.1"> Lenormand unfolded the sheet and looked at the eighth page. </span><span id="kobo.400.2">Presently, he gave a start. </span><span id="kobo.400.3">He had read the following sentence, printed with the usual abbreviation:</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.401.1">4</span></a></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.403.1">“To any person knowing </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.403.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.404.1"> Steinweg. </span><span id="kobo.404.2">Advertiser wishes to know if he is in Paris and his address. </span><span id="kobo.404.3">Reply through this column.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.407.1">“Steinweg!” </span><span id="kobo.407.2">exclaimed Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.407.3">“But that’s the very man whom Dieuzy is bringing to you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">“Yes, yes,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.408.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.409.1"> Lenormand, to himself, “it’s the man whose letter to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.410.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.411.1"> Kesselbach I intercepted, the man who put Kesselbach on the track of Pierre Leduc.</span><span id="kobo.411.2">﻿ ﻿… So they, too, want particulars about Pierre Leduc and his past?</span><span id="kobo.411.3">﻿ ﻿… They, too, are groping in the dark?</span><span id="kobo.411.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">He rubbed his hands: </span><span id="kobo.413.2">Steinweg was at his disposal. </span><span id="kobo.413.3">In less than an hour, Steinweg would have spoken. </span><span id="kobo.413.4">In less than an hour, the murky veil which oppressed him and which made the Kesselbach case the most agonizing and the most impenetrable that he had ever had in hand: </span><span id="kobo.413.5">that veil would be torn asunder.</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>