<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>I: The Tragedy at the Palace Hotel</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-1" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">I</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Tragedy at the Palace Hotel</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.4.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.5.1"> Kesselbach stopped short on the threshold of the sitting-room, took his secretary’s arm and, in an anxious voice, whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">“Chapman, someone has been here again.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">“Surely not, sir,” protested the secretary. </span><span id="kobo.8.2">“You have just opened the hall-door yourself; and the key never left your pocket while we were lunching in the restaurant.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">“Chapman, someone has been here again,” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.9.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.10.1"> Kesselbach repeated. </span><span id="kobo.10.2">He pointed to a traveling-bag on the mantelpiece. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">“Look, I can prove it. </span><span id="kobo.10.4">That bag was shut. </span><span id="kobo.10.5">It is now open.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">Chapman protested.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“Are you quite sure that you shut it, sir? </span><span id="kobo.13.2">Besides, the bag contains nothing but odds and ends of no value, articles of dress.</span><span id="kobo.13.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">“It contains nothing else, because I took my pocketbook out before we went down, by way of precaution.</span><span id="kobo.14.2">﻿ ﻿… But for that.</span><span id="kobo.14.3">﻿ ﻿… No, Chapman, I tell you, someone has been here while we were at lunch.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">There was a telephone on the wall. </span><span id="kobo.15.2">He took down the receiver:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Hallo!</span><span id="kobo.16.2">﻿ ﻿… I’m </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.16.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.17.1"> Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.17.2">﻿ ﻿… Suite 415﻿ ﻿… That’s right.</span><span id="kobo.17.3">﻿ ﻿… Mademoiselle, would you please put me on to the Prefecture of Police﻿ ﻿… the detective department.</span><span id="kobo.17.4">﻿ ﻿… I know the number﻿ ﻿… one second﻿ ﻿… Ah, here it is! </span><span id="kobo.17.5">Number 822.</span><span id="kobo.17.6">48.</span><span id="kobo.17.7">﻿ ﻿… I’ll hold the line.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">A moment later he continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“Are you 822.</span><span id="kobo.20.2">48? </span><span id="kobo.20.3">I should like a word with </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.20.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.21.1"> Lenormand, the chief of the detective-service. </span><span id="kobo.21.2">My name’s Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.21.3">﻿ ﻿… Hullo!</span><span id="kobo.21.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, the chief detective knows what it’s about. </span><span id="kobo.21.5">He has given me leave to ring him up.</span><span id="kobo.21.6">﻿ ﻿… Oh, he’s not there?</span><span id="kobo.21.7">﻿ ﻿… To whom am I speaking?</span><span id="kobo.21.8">﻿ ﻿… Detective-sergeant Gourel?</span><span id="kobo.21.9">﻿ ﻿… You were there yesterday, were you not, when I called on </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.22.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.23.1"> Lenormand? </span><span id="kobo.23.2">Well, the same thing that I told </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.24.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.25.1"> Lenormand yesterday has occurred again today.</span><span id="kobo.25.2">﻿ ﻿… Someone has entered the suite which I am occupying. </span><span id="kobo.25.3">And, if you come at once, you may be able to discover some clues.</span><span id="kobo.25.4">﻿ ﻿… In an hour or two? </span><span id="kobo.25.5">All right; thanks.</span><span id="kobo.25.6">﻿ ﻿… You have only to ask for suite 415.</span><span id="kobo.25.7">﻿ ﻿… Thank you again.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.28.1">Rudolf Kesselbach, nicknamed alternatively the King of Diamonds and the Lord of the Cape, possessed a fortune estimated at nearly twenty millions sterling. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">For the past week, he had occupied suite 415, on the fourth floor of the Palace Hotel, consisting of three rooms, of which the two larger, on the right, the sitting-room and the principal bedroom, faced the avenue; while the other, on the left, in which Chapman, the secretary, slept, looked out on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.28.3">Rue de Judée</span><span id="kobo.29.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">Adjoining this bedroom, a suite of five rooms had been reserved for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.31.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.32.1"> Kesselbach, who was to leave Monte Carlo, where she was at present staying, and join her husband the moment she heard from him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">Rudolf Kesselbach walked up and down for a few minutes with a thoughtful air. </span><span id="kobo.34.2">He was a tall man, with a ruddy complexion, and still young; and his dreamy eyes, which showed pale blue through his gold-rimmed spectacles, gave him an expression of gentleness and shyness that contrasted curiously with the strength of the square forehead and the powerfully-developed jaws.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">He went to the window: </span><span id="kobo.35.2">it was fastened. </span><span id="kobo.35.3">Besides, how could anyone have entered that way? </span><span id="kobo.35.4">The private balcony that ran round the flat broke off on the right and was separated on the left by a stone channel from the balconies in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.35.5">Rue de Judée</span><span id="kobo.36.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">He went to his bedroom: </span><span id="kobo.38.2">it had no communication with the neighboring rooms. </span><span id="kobo.38.3">He went to his secretary’s bedroom: </span><span id="kobo.38.4">the door that led into the five rooms reserved for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.38.5">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.39.1"> Kesselbach was locked and bolted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">“I can’t understand it at all, Chapman. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">Time after time I have noticed things here﻿ ﻿… funny things, as you must admit. </span><span id="kobo.41.3">Yesterday, my walking-stick was moved.</span><span id="kobo.41.4">﻿ ﻿… The day before that, my papers had certainly been touched.</span><span id="kobo.41.5">﻿ ﻿… And yet how was it possible?</span><span id="kobo.41.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“It is not possible, sir!” </span><span id="kobo.42.2">cried Chapman, whose honest, placid features displayed no anxiety. </span><span id="kobo.42.3">“You’re imagining things, that’s all.</span><span id="kobo.42.4">﻿ ﻿… You have no proof, nothing but impressions, to go upon.</span><span id="kobo.42.5">﻿ ﻿… Besides, look here: </span><span id="kobo.42.6">there is no way into this suite except through the entrance-lobby. </span><span id="kobo.42.7">Very well. </span><span id="kobo.42.8">You had a special key made on the day of our arrival: </span><span id="kobo.42.9">and your own man, Edwards, has the only duplicate. </span><span id="kobo.42.10">Do you trust him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“Of course I do!</span><span id="kobo.43.2">﻿ ﻿… He’s been with me for ten years!</span><span id="kobo.43.3">﻿ ﻿… But Edwards goes to lunch at the same time that we do; and that’s a mistake. </span><span id="kobo.43.4">He must not go down, in future, until we come back.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">Chapman gave a slight shrug of the shoulders. </span><span id="kobo.44.2">There was no doubt about it, the Lord of the Cape was becoming a trifle eccentric, with those incomprehensible fears of his. </span><span id="kobo.44.3">What risk can you run in an hotel, especially when you carry no valuables, no important sum of money on you or with you?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">They heard the hall-door opening. </span><span id="kobo.45.2">It was Edwards. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.45.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.46.1"> Kesselbach called him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“Are you dressed, Edwards? </span><span id="kobo.48.2">Ah, that’s right!</span><span id="kobo.48.3">﻿ ﻿… I am expecting no visitors today, Edwards﻿ ﻿… or, rather, one visitor only, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.48.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.49.1"> Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">Meantime, remain in the lobby and keep an eye on the door. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.50.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.51.1"> Chapman and I have some serious work to do.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">The serious work lasted for a few minutes, during which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.53.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.54.1"> Kesselbach went through his correspondence, read three or four letters and gave instructions how they were to be answered. </span><span id="kobo.54.2">But, suddenly, Chapman, waiting with pen poised, saw that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.55.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.56.1"> Kesselbach was thinking of something quite different from his correspondence. </span><span id="kobo.56.2">He was holding between his fingers and attentively examining a pin, a black pin bent like a fishhook:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“Chapman,” he said, “look what I’ve found on the table. </span><span id="kobo.58.2">This bent pin obviously means something. </span><span id="kobo.58.3">It’s a proof, a material piece of evidence. </span><span id="kobo.58.4">You can’t pretend now that no one has been in the room. </span><span id="kobo.58.5">For, after all, this pin did not come here of itself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Certainly not,” replied the secretary. </span><span id="kobo.59.2">“It came here through me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“What do you mean?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Why, it’s a pin which I used to fasten my tie to my collar. </span><span id="kobo.61.2">I took it out last night, while you were reading, and I twisted it mechanically.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.62.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.63.1"> Kesselbach rose from his chair, with a great air of vexation, took a few steps and stopped.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“You’re laughing at me, Chapman, I feel you are﻿ ﻿… and you’re quite right.</span><span id="kobo.65.2">﻿ ﻿… I won’t deny it, I have been rather﻿ ﻿… odd, since my last journey to the Cape. </span><span id="kobo.65.3">It’s because﻿ ﻿… well﻿ ﻿… you don’t know the new factor in my life﻿ ﻿… a tremendous plan﻿ ﻿… a huge thing﻿ ﻿… I can only see it, as yet, in the haze of the future﻿ ﻿… but it’s taking shape for all that﻿ ﻿… and it will be something colossal.</span><span id="kobo.65.4">﻿ ﻿… Ah, Chapman, you can’t imagine.</span><span id="kobo.65.5">﻿ ﻿… Money I don’t care a fig for: </span><span id="kobo.65.6">I have money, I have too much money.</span><span id="kobo.65.7">﻿ ﻿… But this, this means a great deal more; it means power, might, authority. </span><span id="kobo.65.8">If the reality comes up to my expectations, I shall be not only Lord of the Cape, but lord of other realms as well.</span><span id="kobo.65.9">﻿ ﻿… Rudolf Kesselbach, the son of the Augsburg ironmonger, will be on a par with many people who till now have looked down upon him.</span><span id="kobo.65.10">﻿ ﻿… He will even take precedence of them, Chapman; he will, take precedence of them, mark my words﻿ ﻿… and, if ever I﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">He interrupted himself, looked at Chapman as though he regretted having said too much and, nevertheless, carried away by his excitement, concluded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“You now understand the reasons of my anxiety, Chapman.</span><span id="kobo.67.2">﻿ ﻿… Here, in this brain, is an idea that is worth a great deal﻿ ﻿… and this idea is suspected perhaps﻿ ﻿… and I am being spied upon.</span><span id="kobo.67.3">﻿ ﻿… I’m convinced of it.</span><span id="kobo.67.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">A bell sounded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“The telephone,” said Chapman.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“Could it,” muttered Kesselbach, “by any chance be﻿ ﻿… ?” </span><span id="kobo.70.2">He took down the instrument. </span><span id="kobo.70.3">“Hullo!</span><span id="kobo.70.4">﻿ ﻿… Who? </span><span id="kobo.70.5">The Colonel? </span><span id="kobo.70.6">Ah, good! </span><span id="kobo.70.7">Yes, it’s I.</span><span id="kobo.70.8">﻿ ﻿… Any news?</span><span id="kobo.70.9">﻿ ﻿… Good!</span><span id="kobo.70.10">﻿ ﻿… Then I shall expect you.</span><span id="kobo.70.11">﻿ ﻿… You will come with one of your men? </span><span id="kobo.70.12">Very well.</span><span id="kobo.70.13">﻿ ﻿… What? </span><span id="kobo.70.14">No, we shan’t be disturbed.</span><span id="kobo.70.15">﻿ ﻿… I will give the necessary orders.</span><span id="kobo.70.16">﻿ ﻿… It’s as serious as that, is it?</span><span id="kobo.70.17">﻿ ﻿… I tell you, my instructions will be positive﻿ ﻿… my secretary and my man shall keep the door; and no one shall be allowed in.</span><span id="kobo.70.18">﻿ ﻿… You know the way, don’t you?</span><span id="kobo.70.19">﻿ ﻿… Then don’t lose a minute.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">He hung up the receiver and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“Chapman, there are two gentlemen coming. </span><span id="kobo.72.2">Edwards will show them in.</span><span id="kobo.72.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“But </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.73.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.74.1"> Gourel﻿ ﻿… the detective-sergeant.</span><span id="kobo.74.2">﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“He will come later﻿ ﻿… in an hour.</span><span id="kobo.76.2">﻿ ﻿… And, even then, there’s no harm in their meeting. </span><span id="kobo.76.3">So send Edwards down to the office at once, to tell them. </span><span id="kobo.76.4">I am at home to nobody﻿ ﻿… except two gentlemen, the Colonel and his friend, and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.76.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.77.1"> Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">He must make them take down the names.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">Chapman did as he was asked. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">When he returned to the room, he found </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.79.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.80.1"> Kesselbach holding in his hand an envelope, or, rather, a little pocket-case, in black morocco leather, apparently empty. </span><span id="kobo.80.2">He seemed to hesitate, as though he did not know what to do with it. </span><span id="kobo.80.3">Should he put it in his pocket or lay it down elsewhere? </span><span id="kobo.80.4">At last he went to the mantelpiece and threw the leather envelope into his traveling-bag:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“Let us finish the mail, Chapman. </span><span id="kobo.82.2">We have ten minutes left. </span><span id="kobo.82.3">Ah, a letter from </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.82.4">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.83.1"> Kesselbach! </span><span id="kobo.83.2">Why didn’t you tell me of it, Chapman? </span><span id="kobo.83.3">Didn’t you recognize the handwriting?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">He made no attempt to conceal the emotion which he felt in touching and contemplating that paper which his wife had held in her fingers and to which she had added a look of her eyes, an atom of her scent, a suggestion of her secret thoughts. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">He inhaled its perfume and, unsealing it, read the letter slowly in an undertone, in fragments that reached Chapman’s ears:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.86.1">“Feeling a little tired.</span><span id="kobo.86.2">﻿ ﻿… Shall keep my room today.</span><span id="kobo.86.3">﻿ ﻿… I feel so bored.</span><span id="kobo.86.4">﻿ ﻿… When can I come to you? </span><span id="kobo.86.5">I am longing for your wire.</span><span id="kobo.86.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“You telegraphed this morning, Chapman? </span><span id="kobo.88.2">Then </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.88.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.89.1"> Kesselbach will be here tomorrow, Wednesday.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">He seemed quite gay, as though the weight of his business had been suddenly relieved and he freed from all anxiety. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">He rubbed his hands and heaved a deep breath, like a strong man certain of success, like a lucky man who possessed happiness and who was big enough to defend himself.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“There’s someone ringing, Chapman, someone ringing at the hall door. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">Go and see who it is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">But Edwards entered and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“Two gentlemen asking for you, sir. </span><span id="kobo.94.2">They are the ones.</span><span id="kobo.94.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“I know. </span><span id="kobo.95.2">Are they there, in the lobby?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">“Yes, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">“Close the hall-door and don’t open it again except to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.97.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.98.1"> Gourel, the detective-sergeant. </span><span id="kobo.98.2">You go and bring the gentlemen in, Chapman, and tell them that I would like to speak to the Colonel first, to the Colonel alone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">Edwards and Chapman left the room, shutting the door after them. </span><span id="kobo.100.2">Rudolf Kesselbach went to the window and pressed his forehead against the glass.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">Outside, just below his eyes, the carriages and motorcars rolled along in parallel furrows, marked by the double line of refuges. </span><span id="kobo.101.2">A bright spring sun made the brass-work and the varnish gleam again. </span><span id="kobo.101.3">The trees were putting forth their first green shoots; and the buds of the tall chestnuts were beginning to unfold their newborn leaves.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“What on earth is Chapman doing?” </span><span id="kobo.102.2">muttered Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.102.3">“The time he wastes in palavering!</span><span id="kobo.102.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">He took a cigarette from the table, lit it and drew a few puffs. </span><span id="kobo.103.2">A faint exclamation escaped him. </span><span id="kobo.103.3">Close before him stood a man whom he did not know.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">He started back:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“Who are you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">The man﻿—he was a well-dressed individual, rather smart-looking, with dark hair, a dark moustache and hard eyes﻿—the man gave a grin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“Who am I? </span><span id="kobo.107.2">Why, the Colonel!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“No, no.</span><span id="kobo.108.2">﻿ ﻿… The one I call the Colonel, the one who writes to me under that﻿ ﻿… adopted﻿ ﻿… signature﻿ ﻿… is not you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“Yes, yes﻿ ﻿… the other was only﻿ ﻿… But, my dear sir, all this, you know, is not of the smallest importance. </span><span id="kobo.109.2">The essential thing is that I﻿ ﻿… am myself. </span><span id="kobo.109.3">And that, I assure you, I </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.109.4">am</span></em><span id="kobo.110.1">!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“But your name, sir?</span><span id="kobo.112.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“The Colonel﻿ ﻿… until further orders.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.114.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.115.1"> Kesselbach was seized with a growing fear. </span><span id="kobo.115.2">Who was this man? </span><span id="kobo.115.3">What did he want with him?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">He called out:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Chapman!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“What a funny idea, to call out! </span><span id="kobo.119.2">Isn’t my company enough for you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“Chapman!” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.120.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.121.1"> Kesselbach cried again. </span><span id="kobo.121.2">“Chapman! </span><span id="kobo.121.3">Edwards!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Chapman! </span><span id="kobo.123.2">Edwards!” </span><span id="kobo.123.3">echoed the stranger, in his turn. </span><span id="kobo.123.4">“What are you doing? </span><span id="kobo.123.5">You’re wanted!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“Sir, I ask you, I order you to let me pass.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“But, my dear sir, who’s preventing you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">He politely made way. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.126.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.127.1"> Kesselbach walked to the door, opened it and gave a sudden jump backward. </span><span id="kobo.127.2">Behind the door stood another man, pistol in hand. </span><span id="kobo.127.3">Kesselbach stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“Edwards﻿ ﻿… Chap﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">He did not finish. </span><span id="kobo.130.2">In a corner of the lobby he saw his secretary and his servant lying side by side on the floor, gagged and bound.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.131.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.132.1"> Kesselbach, notwithstanding his nervous and excitable nature, was not devoid of physical courage; and the sense of a definite danger, instead of depressing him, restored all his elasticity and vigor. </span><span id="kobo.132.2">Pretending dismay and stupefaction, he moved slowly back to the chimneypiece and leant against the wall. </span><span id="kobo.132.3">His hand felt for the electric bell. </span><span id="kobo.132.4">He found it and pressed the button without removing his finger.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“Well?” </span><span id="kobo.134.2">asked the stranger.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.135.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.136.1"> Kesselbach made no reply and continued to press the button.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“Well? </span><span id="kobo.138.2">Do you expect they will come, that the whole hotel is in commotion, because you are pressing that bell? </span><span id="kobo.138.3">Why, my dear sir, look behind you and you will see that the wire is cut!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.139.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.140.1"> Kesselbach turned round sharply, as though he wanted to make sure; but, instead, with a quick movement, he seized the traveling-bag, thrust his hand into it, grasped a revolver, aimed it at the man and pulled the trigger.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“Whew!” </span><span id="kobo.142.2">said the stranger. </span><span id="kobo.142.3">“So you load your weapons with air and silence?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">The cock clicked a second time and a third, but there was no report.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“Three shots more, Lord of the Cape! </span><span id="kobo.144.2">I shan’t be satisfied till you’ve lodged six bullets in my carcass. </span><span id="kobo.144.3">What! </span><span id="kobo.144.4">You give up? </span><span id="kobo.144.5">That’s a pity﻿ ﻿… you were making excellent practice!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">He took hold of a chair by the back, spun it round, sat down astraddle and, pointing to an armchair, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“Won’t you take a seat, my dear sir, and make yourself at home? </span><span id="kobo.146.2">A cigarette? </span><span id="kobo.146.3">Not for me, thanks: </span><span id="kobo.146.4">I prefer a cigar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">There was a box on the table: </span><span id="kobo.147.2">he selected an Upmann, light in color and flawless in shape, lit it and, with a bow:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Thank you! </span><span id="kobo.148.2">That’s a perfect cigar. </span><span id="kobo.148.3">And now let’s have a chat, shall we?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">Rudolf Kesselbach listened to him in amazement. </span><span id="kobo.149.2">Who could this strange person be?</span><span id="kobo.149.3">﻿ ﻿… Still, at the sight of his visitor sitting there so quiet and so chatty, he became gradually reassured and began to think that the situation might come to an end without any need to resort to violence or brute force.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">He took out a pocketbook, opened it, displayed a respectable bundle of banknotes and asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“How much?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">The other looked at him with an air of bewilderment, as though he found a difficulty in understanding what Kesselbach meant. </span><span id="kobo.152.2">Then, after a moment, he called:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">The man with the revolver stepped forward.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Marco, this gentleman is good enough to offer you a few bits of paper for your young woman. </span><span id="kobo.155.2">Take them, Marco.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">Still aiming his revolver with his right hand, Marco put out his left, took the notes and withdrew.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“Now that this question is settled according to your wishes,” resumed the stranger, “let us come to the object of my visit. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">I will be brief and to the point. </span><span id="kobo.157.3">I want two things. </span><span id="kobo.157.4">In the first place, a little black morocco pocket-case, shaped like an envelope, which you generally carry on you. </span><span id="kobo.157.5">Secondly, a small ebony box, which was in that traveling-bag yesterday. </span><span id="kobo.157.6">Let us proceed in order. </span><span id="kobo.157.7">The morocco case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“Burnt.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">The stranger knit his brows. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">He must have had a vision of the good old days when there were peremptory methods of making the contumacious speak:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.160.2">We shall see about that. </span><span id="kobo.160.3">And the ebony box?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“Burnt.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“Ah,” he growled, “you’re getting at me, my good man!” </span><span id="kobo.162.2">He twisted the other’s arm with a pitiless hand. </span><span id="kobo.162.3">“Yesterday, Rudolf Kesselbach, you walked into the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.162.4">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.163.1">, on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.164.1">Boulevard des Italiens</span><span id="kobo.165.1">, hiding a parcel under your overcoat. </span><span id="kobo.165.2">You hired a safe﻿ ﻿… let us be exact: </span><span id="kobo.165.3">safe </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.166.1">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.167.1"> 16, in recess </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.168.1">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.169.1"> 9. </span><span id="kobo.169.2">After signing the book and paying your safe-rent, you went down to the basement; and, when you came up again, you no longer had your parcel with you. </span><span id="kobo.169.3">Is that correct?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Quite.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Then the box and the pocket-case are at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.172.2">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.173.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“Give me the key of your safe.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">“Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">Marco ran up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“Look sharp, Marco! </span><span id="kobo.180.2">The quadruple knot!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">Before he had even time to stand on the defensive, Rudolf Kesselbach was tied up in a network of cords that cut into his flesh at the least attempt which he made to struggle. </span><span id="kobo.181.2">His arms were fixed behind his back, his body fastened to the chair and his legs tied together like the legs of a mummy.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“Search him, Marco.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">Marco searched him. </span><span id="kobo.183.2">Two minutes after, he handed his chief a little flat, nickel-plated key, bearing the numbers 16 and 9.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“Capital. </span><span id="kobo.184.2">No morocco pocket-case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“No, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“It is in the safe. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.186.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.187.1"> Kesselbach, will you tell me the secret cipher that opens the lock?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“You refuse?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“Yes, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“Place the barrel of your revolver against the gentleman’s temple.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“It’s there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">“Now put your finger to the trigger.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Ready.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">“Well, Kesselbach, old chap, do you intend to speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">“I’ll give you ten seconds, and not one more. </span><span id="kobo.200.2">Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">“Yes, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“In ten seconds, blow out the gentleman’s brains.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“Right you are, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Kesselbach, I’m counting. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">One, two, three, four, five, six﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">Rudolph Kesselbach made a sign.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“You want to speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">“You’re just in time. </span><span id="kobo.208.2">Well, the cipher﻿ ﻿… the word for the lock?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“Dolor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Dolor﻿ ﻿… Dolor﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.210.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.211.1"> Kesselbach’s name is Dolores, I believe? </span><span id="kobo.211.2">You dear boy!</span><span id="kobo.211.3">﻿ ﻿… Marco, go and do as I told you.</span><span id="kobo.211.4">﻿ ﻿… No mistake, mind! </span><span id="kobo.211.5">I’ll repeat it: </span><span id="kobo.211.6">meet Jérôme at the omnibus office, give him the key, tell him the word: </span><span id="kobo.211.7">Dolor. </span><span id="kobo.211.8">Then, the two of you, go to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.212.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.213.1">. </span><span id="kobo.213.2">Jérôme is to walk in alone, sign the name-book, go down to the basement and bring away everything in the safe. </span><span id="kobo.213.3">Do you quite understand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“Yes, governor. </span><span id="kobo.215.2">But if the safe shouldn’t open; if the word Dolor﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“Silence, Marco. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">When you come out of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.216.3">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.217.1">, you must leave Jérôme, go to your own place and telephone the result of the operation to me. </span><span id="kobo.217.2">Should the word Dolor by any chance fail to open the safe, we (my friend Rudolf Kesselbach and I) will have one﻿ ﻿… </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.218.1">last</span></em><span id="kobo.219.1">﻿ ﻿… interview. </span><span id="kobo.219.2">Kesselbach, you’re quite sure you’re not mistaken?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“That means that you rely upon the futility of the search. </span><span id="kobo.222.2">We shall see. </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Be off, Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“What about you, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“I shall stay. </span><span id="kobo.224.2">Oh, I’m not afraid! </span><span id="kobo.224.3">I’ve never been in less danger than at this moment. </span><span id="kobo.224.4">Your orders about the door were positive, Kesselbach, were they not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“Dash it all, you seemed very eager to get that said! </span><span id="kobo.226.2">Can you have been trying to gain time? </span><span id="kobo.226.3">If so, I should be caught in a trap like a fool.</span><span id="kobo.226.4">﻿ ﻿…” He stopped to think, looked at his prisoner and concluded, “No﻿ ﻿… it’s not possible﻿ ﻿… we shall not be disturbed﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">He had not finished speaking, when the doorbell rang. </span><span id="kobo.227.2">He pressed his hand violently on Rudolf Kesselbach’s mouth:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“Oh, you old fox, you were expecting someone!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">The captive’s eyes gleamed with hope. </span><span id="kobo.229.2">He could be heard chuckling under the hand that stifled him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">The stranger shook with rage:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Hold your tongue, or I’ll strangle you! </span><span id="kobo.231.2">Here, Marco, gag him! </span><span id="kobo.231.3">Quick!</span><span id="kobo.231.4">﻿ ﻿… That’s it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">The bell rang again. </span><span id="kobo.232.2">He shouted, as though he himself were Kesselbach and as though Edwards were still there:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“Why don’t you open the door, Edwards?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">Then he went softly into the lobby and, pointing to the secretary and the manservant, whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“Marco, help me shift these two into the bedroom﻿ ﻿… over there﻿ ﻿… so that they can’t be seen.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">He lifted the secretary. </span><span id="kobo.236.2">Marco carried the servant.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“Good! </span><span id="kobo.237.2">Now go back to the sitting-room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">He followed him in and at once returned to the lobby and said, in a loud tone of astonishment:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“Why, your man’s not here, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.239.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.240.1"> Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.240.2">﻿ ﻿… No, don’t move﻿ ﻿… finish your letter.</span><span id="kobo.240.3">﻿ ﻿… I’ll go myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">And he quietly opened the hall-door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.243.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.244.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">He found himself faced by a sort of jovial, bright-eyed giant, who stood swinging from one foot to the other and twisting the brim of his hat between his fingers. </span><span id="kobo.246.2">He answered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“Yes, that’s right. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">Who shall I say﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.248.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.249.1"> Kesselbach telephoned.</span><span id="kobo.249.2">﻿ ﻿… He expects me.</span><span id="kobo.249.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“Oh, it’s you.</span><span id="kobo.251.2">﻿ ﻿… I’ll tell him.</span><span id="kobo.251.3">﻿ ﻿… Do you mind waiting a minute?</span><span id="kobo.251.4">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.251.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.252.1"> Kesselbach will speak to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">He had the audacity to leave the visitor standing on the threshold of the little entrance-hall, at a place from which he could see a portion of the sitting-room through the open door, and, slowly, without so much as turning round, he entered the room, went to his confederate by </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.254.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.255.1"> Kesselbach’s side and whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">“We’re done! </span><span id="kobo.257.2">It’s Gourel, the detective.</span><span id="kobo.257.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">The other drew his knife. </span><span id="kobo.258.2">He caught him by the arm:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“No nonsense! </span><span id="kobo.259.2">I have an idea. </span><span id="kobo.259.3">But, for God’s sake, Marco, understand me and speak in your turn. </span><span id="kobo.259.4">Speak </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.259.5">as if you were Kesselbach</span></em><span id="kobo.260.1">.</span><span id="kobo.260.2">﻿ ﻿… You hear, Marco! </span><span id="kobo.260.3">You </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.261.1">are</span></em><span id="kobo.262.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">He expressed himself so coolly, so forcibly and with such authority that Marco understood, without further explanation, that he himself was to play the part of Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.264.2">Marco said, so as to be heard:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“You must apologize for me, my dear fellow. </span><span id="kobo.265.2">Tell </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.265.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.266.1"> Gourel I’m awfully sorry, but I’m over head and ears in work.</span><span id="kobo.266.2">﻿ ﻿… I will see him tomorrow morning, at nine﻿ ﻿… yes, at nine o’clock punctually.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“Good!” </span><span id="kobo.268.2">whispered the other. </span><span id="kobo.268.3">“Don’t stir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">He went back to the lobby, found Gourel waiting, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.270.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.271.1"> Kesselbach begs you to excuse him. </span><span id="kobo.271.2">He is finishing an important piece of work. </span><span id="kobo.271.3">Could you possibly come back at nine o’clock tomorrow morning?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">There was a pause. </span><span id="kobo.273.2">Gourel seemed surprised, more or less bothered and undecided. </span><span id="kobo.273.3">The other man’s hand clutched the handle of a knife at the bottom of his pocket. </span><span id="kobo.273.4">At the first suspicious movement, he was prepared to strike.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">At last, Gourel said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“Very well.</span><span id="kobo.275.2">﻿ ﻿… At nine o’clock tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.275.3">﻿ ﻿… But, all the same﻿ ﻿… However, I shall be here at nine tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.275.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">And, putting on his hat, he disappeared down the passage of the hotel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">Marco, in the sitting-room, burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“That was jolly clever of you, governor! </span><span id="kobo.278.2">Oh, how nicely you spoofed him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">“Look alive, Marco, and follow him. </span><span id="kobo.279.2">If he leaves the hotel, let him be, meet Jérôme at the omnibus-office as arranged﻿ ﻿… and telephone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">Marco went away quickly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">Then the man took a water-bottle on the chimneypiece, poured himself out a tumblerful, which he swallowed at a draught, wetted his handkerchief, dabbed his forehead, which was covered with perspiration, and then sat down beside his prisoner and, with an affectation of politeness, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“But I must really have the honor, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.282.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.283.1"> Kesselbach, of introducing myself to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">And, taking a card from his pocket, he said: </span><span id="kobo.285.2">“Allow me.</span><span id="kobo.285.3">﻿ ﻿… Arsène Lupin, gentleman-burglar.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.287.1">The name of the famous adventurer seemed to make the best of impressions upon </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.287.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.288.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.288.2">Lupin did not fail to observe the fact and exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Aha, my dear sir, you breathe again! </span><span id="kobo.290.2">Arsène Lupin is a delicate, squeamish burglar. </span><span id="kobo.290.3">He loathes bloodshed, he has never committed a more serious crime than that of annexing other people’s property﻿ ﻿… a mere peccadillo, eh? </span><span id="kobo.290.4">And what you’re saying to yourself is that he is not going to burden his conscience with a useless murder. </span><span id="kobo.290.5">Quite so.</span><span id="kobo.290.6">﻿ ﻿… But will your destruction be so useless as all that? </span><span id="kobo.290.7">Everything depends on the answer. </span><span id="kobo.290.8">And I assure you that I’m not larking at present. </span><span id="kobo.290.9">Come on, old chap!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">He drew up his chair beside the armchair, removed the prisoner’s gag and, speaking very plainly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.292.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.293.1"> Kesselbach,” he said, “on the day when you arrived in Paris you entered into relations with one Barbareux, the manager of a confidential inquiry agency; and, as you were acting without the knowledge of your secretary, Chapman, it was arranged that the said Barbareux, when communicating with you by letter or telephone, should call himself ‘the Colonel.’ </span><span id="kobo.293.2">I hasten to tell you that Barbareux is a perfectly honest man. </span><span id="kobo.293.3">But I have the good fortune to number one of his clerks among my own particular friends. </span><span id="kobo.293.4">That is how I discovered the motive of your application to Barbareux and how I came to interest myself in you and to make a search or two here, with the assistance of a set of false keys﻿ ﻿… in the course of which search or two, I may as well tell you, I did not find what I was looking for.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">He lowered his voice and, with his eyes fixed on the eyes of his prisoner, watching his expression, searching his secret thoughts, he uttered these words:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.296.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.297.1"> Kesselbach, your instructions to Barbareux were that he should find a man hidden somewhere in the slums of Paris who bears or used to bear the name of Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.297.2">The man answers to this brief description: </span><span id="kobo.297.3">height, five feet nine inches; hair and complexion, fair; wears a moustache. </span><span id="kobo.297.4">Special mark: </span><span id="kobo.297.5">the tip of the little finger of the left hand is missing, as the result of a cut. </span><span id="kobo.297.6">Also, he has an almost imperceptible scar on the right cheek. </span><span id="kobo.297.7">You seem to attach enormous importance to this man’s discovery, as though it might lead to some great advantage to yourself. </span><span id="kobo.297.8">Who is the man?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“I don’t know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">The answer was positive, absolute. </span><span id="kobo.300.2">Did he know or did he not know? </span><span id="kobo.300.3">It made little difference. </span><span id="kobo.300.4">The great thing was that he was determined not to speak.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“Very well,” said his adversary, “but you have fuller particulars about him than those with which you furnished Barbareux.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">“I have not.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“You lie, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.303.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.304.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">Twice, in Barbareux’s presence, you consulted papers contained in the morocco case.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“I did.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“And the case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">“Burnt.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">Lupin quivered with rage. </span><span id="kobo.309.2">The thought of torture and of the facilities which it used to offer was evidently passing through his mind again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“Burnt? </span><span id="kobo.310.2">But the box?</span><span id="kobo.310.3">﻿ ﻿… Come, own up﻿ ﻿… confess that the box is at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.310.4">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.311.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“And what’s inside it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“The finest two hundred diamonds in my private collection.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">This statement did not seem to displease the adventurer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“Aha, the finest two hundred diamonds! </span><span id="kobo.317.2">But, I say, that’s a fortune!</span><span id="kobo.317.3">﻿ ﻿… Yes, that makes you smile.</span><span id="kobo.317.4">﻿ ﻿… It’s a trifle to you, no doubt.</span><span id="kobo.317.5">﻿ ﻿… And your secret is worth more than that.</span><span id="kobo.317.6">﻿ ﻿… To you, yes﻿ ﻿… but to me?</span><span id="kobo.317.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">He took a cigar, lit a match, which he allowed to go out again mechanically, and sat for some time thinking, motionless.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">The minutes passed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">He began to laugh:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“I dare say you’re hoping that the expedition will come to nothing and that they won’t open the safe?</span><span id="kobo.321.2">﻿ ﻿… Very likely, old chap! </span><span id="kobo.321.3">But, in that case, you’ll have to pay me for my trouble. </span><span id="kobo.321.4">I did not come here to see what sort of figure you cut in an armchair.</span><span id="kobo.321.5">﻿ ﻿… The diamonds, since diamonds there appear to be﻿ ﻿… or else the morocco case.</span><span id="kobo.321.6">﻿ ﻿… There’s your dilemma.” </span><span id="kobo.321.7">He looked at his watch. </span><span id="kobo.321.8">“Half an hour.</span><span id="kobo.321.9">﻿ ﻿… Hang it all!</span><span id="kobo.321.10">﻿ ﻿… Fate is moving very slowly.</span><span id="kobo.321.11">﻿ ﻿… But there’s nothing for you to grin at, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.321.12">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.322.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.322.2">I shall not go back empty-handed, make no mistake about that!</span><span id="kobo.322.3">﻿ ﻿… At last!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">It was the telephone-bell. </span><span id="kobo.324.2">Lupin snatched at the receiver and, changing the sound of his voice, imitated the rough accent of his prisoner:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“Yes, Rudolf Kesselbach﻿ ﻿… you’re speaking to him.</span><span id="kobo.325.2">﻿ ﻿… Yes, please, mademoiselle, put me on.</span><span id="kobo.325.3">﻿ ﻿… Is that you, Marco?</span><span id="kobo.325.4">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.325.5">﻿ ﻿… Did it go off all right?</span><span id="kobo.325.6">﻿ ﻿… Excellent!</span><span id="kobo.325.7">﻿ ﻿… No hitch?</span><span id="kobo.325.8">﻿ ﻿… My best compliments!</span><span id="kobo.325.9">﻿ ﻿… Well, what did you pick up?</span><span id="kobo.325.10">﻿ ﻿… The ebony box?</span><span id="kobo.325.11">﻿ ﻿… Nothing else?</span><span id="kobo.325.12">﻿ ﻿… No papers?</span><span id="kobo.325.13">﻿ ﻿… Tut, tut!</span><span id="kobo.325.14">﻿ ﻿… And what’s in the box?</span><span id="kobo.325.15">﻿ ﻿… Are they fine diamonds?</span><span id="kobo.325.16">﻿ ﻿… Capital, capital!</span><span id="kobo.325.17">﻿ ﻿… One minute, Marco, while I think.</span><span id="kobo.325.18">﻿ ﻿… You see, all this.</span><span id="kobo.325.19">﻿ ﻿… If I were to tell you my opinion.</span><span id="kobo.325.20">﻿ ﻿… Wait, don’t go away﻿ ﻿… hold the line.</span><span id="kobo.325.21">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">He turned round.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.327.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.328.1"> Kesselbach, are you keen on your diamonds?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">“Would you buy them back of me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“Possibly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“For how much? </span><span id="kobo.333.2">Five hundred thousand francs?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“Five hundred thousand﻿ ﻿… yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“Only, here’s the rub: </span><span id="kobo.335.2">how are we to make the exchange? </span><span id="kobo.335.3">A cheque? </span><span id="kobo.335.4">No, you’d swindle me﻿ ﻿… or else I’d swindle you.</span><span id="kobo.335.5">﻿ ﻿… Listen. </span><span id="kobo.335.6">On the day after tomorrow, go to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.335.7">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.336.1"> in the morning, draw out your five hundred banknotes of a thousand each and go for a walk in the Bois, on the Auteuil side.</span><span id="kobo.336.2">﻿ ﻿… I shall have the diamonds in a bag: </span><span id="kobo.336.3">that’s handier.</span><span id="kobo.336.4">﻿ ﻿… The box shows too much.</span><span id="kobo.336.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">Kesselbach gave a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“No, no﻿ ﻿… the box, too.</span><span id="kobo.339.2">﻿ ﻿… I want everything.</span><span id="kobo.339.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“Ah,” cried Lupin, shouting with laughter, “you’ve fallen into the trap!</span><span id="kobo.340.2">﻿ ﻿… The diamonds you don’t care about﻿ ﻿… they can be replaced.</span><span id="kobo.340.3">﻿ ﻿… But you cling to that box as you cling to your skin.</span><span id="kobo.340.4">﻿ ﻿… Very well, you shall have your box﻿ ﻿… on the word of Arsène﻿ ﻿… you shall have it tomorrow morning, by parcel post!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">He went back to the telephone:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“Marco, have you the box in front of you?</span><span id="kobo.342.2">﻿ ﻿… Is there anything particular about it?</span><span id="kobo.342.3">﻿ ﻿… Ebony inlaid with ivory.</span><span id="kobo.342.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, I know the sort of thing.</span><span id="kobo.342.5">﻿ ﻿… Japanese, from the Faubourg Saint-Antoine.</span><span id="kobo.342.6">﻿ ﻿… No mark?</span><span id="kobo.342.7">﻿ ﻿… Ah, a little round label, with a blue border and a number!</span><span id="kobo.342.8">﻿ ﻿… Yes, a shop-mark﻿ ﻿… no importance. </span><span id="kobo.342.9">And is the bottom of the box thick?</span><span id="kobo.342.10">﻿ ﻿… Not very thick.</span><span id="kobo.342.11">﻿ ﻿… Bother! </span><span id="kobo.342.12">No false bottom, then?</span><span id="kobo.342.13">﻿ ﻿… Look here, Marco: </span><span id="kobo.342.14">just examine the ivory inlay on the outside﻿ ﻿… or, rather, no, the lid.” </span><span id="kobo.342.15">He reveled with delight. </span><span id="kobo.342.16">“The lid! </span><span id="kobo.342.17">That’s it, Marco! </span><span id="kobo.342.18">Kesselbach blinked his eyes just now.</span><span id="kobo.342.19">﻿ ﻿… We’re burning!</span><span id="kobo.342.20">﻿ ﻿… Ah, Kesselbach, old chap, didn’t you see me squinting at you? </span><span id="kobo.342.21">You silly fellow!” </span><span id="kobo.342.22">And, to Marco, “Well, what do you see?</span><span id="kobo.342.23">﻿ ﻿… A looking-glass inside the lid?</span><span id="kobo.342.24">﻿ ﻿… Does it slide?</span><span id="kobo.342.25">﻿ ﻿… Is it on hinges?</span><span id="kobo.342.26">﻿ ﻿… No!</span><span id="kobo.342.27">﻿ ﻿… Well, then, break it.</span><span id="kobo.342.28">﻿ ﻿… Yes, yes, I tell you to break it.</span><span id="kobo.342.29">﻿ ﻿… That glass serves no purpose there﻿ ﻿… it’s been added since!” </span><span id="kobo.342.30">He lost patience. </span><span id="kobo.342.31">“Mind your own business, idiot!</span><span id="kobo.342.32">﻿ ﻿… Do as I say!</span><span id="kobo.342.33">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">He must have heard the noise which Marco made at the other end of the wire in breaking the glass, for he shouted, in triumph.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">“Didn’t I tell you, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.344.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.345.1"> Kesselbach, that we should find something?</span><span id="kobo.345.2">﻿ ﻿… Hullo! </span><span id="kobo.345.3">Have you done it?</span><span id="kobo.345.4">﻿ ﻿… Well?</span><span id="kobo.345.5">﻿ ﻿… A letter? </span><span id="kobo.345.6">Victory! </span><span id="kobo.345.7">All the diamonds in the Cape and old man Kesselbach’s secret into the bargain!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">He took down the second receiver, carefully put the two discs to his ears and continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">“Read it to me, Marco, read it to me slowly.</span><span id="kobo.348.2">﻿ ﻿… The envelope first.</span><span id="kobo.348.3">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.348.4">﻿ ﻿… Now, repeat.” </span><span id="kobo.348.5">He himself repeated, “ ‘Copy of the letter contained in the black morocco case.’ </span><span id="kobo.348.6">And next? </span><span id="kobo.348.7">Tear the envelope, Marco.</span><span id="kobo.348.8">﻿ ﻿… Have I your permission, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.348.9">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.349.1"> Kesselbach? </span><span id="kobo.349.2">It’s not very good form, but, however﻿ ﻿… Go on, Marco, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.350.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.351.1"> Kesselbach gives you leave.</span><span id="kobo.351.2">﻿ ﻿… Done it?</span><span id="kobo.351.3">﻿ ﻿… Well, then, read it out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">He listened and, with a chuckle:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“The deuce! </span><span id="kobo.354.2">That’s not quite as clear as a pikestaff! </span><span id="kobo.354.3">Listen. </span><span id="kobo.354.4">I’ll repeat: </span><span id="kobo.354.5">a plain sheet of paper folded in four, the folds apparently quite fresh.</span><span id="kobo.354.6">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.354.7">﻿ ﻿… At the top of the page, on the right, these words: </span><span id="kobo.354.8">‘Five feet nine, left little finger cut.’ </span><span id="kobo.354.9">And so on.</span><span id="kobo.354.10">﻿ ﻿… Yes, that’s the description of Master Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.354.11">In Kesselbach’s handwriting, I suppose?</span><span id="kobo.354.12">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.354.13">﻿ ﻿… And, in the middle of the page, this word in printed capitals: </span><span id="kobo.354.14">‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.354.15">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.355.1">.’ </span><span id="kobo.355.2">Marco, my lad, leave the paper as it is and don’t touch the box or the diamonds. </span><span id="kobo.355.3">I shall have done with our friend here in ten minutes and I shall be with you in twenty.</span><span id="kobo.355.4">﻿ ﻿… Oh, by the way, did you send back the motor for me? </span><span id="kobo.355.5">Capital! </span><span id="kobo.355.6">So long!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">He replaced the instrument, went into the lobby and into the bedroom, made sure that the secretary and the manservant had not unloosed their bonds and, on the other hand, that they were in no danger of being choked by their gags. </span><span id="kobo.357.2">Then he returned to his chief prisoner.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">He wore a determined and relentless look:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“We’ve finished joking, Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.359.2">If you don’t speak, it will be the worse for you. </span><span id="kobo.359.3">Have you made up your mind?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“What about?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">“No nonsense, please. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Tell me what you know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">“I know nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“You lie. </span><span id="kobo.363.2">What does this word ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.363.3">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.364.1">’ mean?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“If I knew, I should not have written it down.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">“Very well; but whom or what does it refer to? </span><span id="kobo.367.2">Where did you copy it? </span><span id="kobo.367.3">Where did you get it from?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.368.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.369.1"> Kesselbach made no reply. </span><span id="kobo.369.2">Lupin, now speaking in nervous, jerky tones, resumed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“Listen, Kesselbach, I have a proposal to make to you. </span><span id="kobo.371.2">Rich man, big man though you may be, there is not so much difference between us. </span><span id="kobo.371.3">The son of the Augsburg ironmonger and Arsène Lupin, prince of burglars, can come to an understanding without shame on either side. </span><span id="kobo.371.4">I do my thieving indoors; you do yours on the Stock Exchange. </span><span id="kobo.371.5">It’s all much of a muchness. </span><span id="kobo.371.6">So here we are, Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.371.7">Let’s be partners in this business. </span><span id="kobo.371.8">I have need of you, because I don’t know what it’s about. </span><span id="kobo.371.9">You have need of me, because you will never be able to manage it alone. </span><span id="kobo.371.10">Barbareux is an ass. </span><span id="kobo.371.11">I am Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.371.12">Is it a bargain?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">No answer. </span><span id="kobo.372.2">Lupin persisted, in a voice shaking with intensity:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“Answer, Kesselbach, is it a bargain? </span><span id="kobo.373.2">If so, I’ll find your Pierre Leduc for you in forty-eight hours. </span><span id="kobo.373.3">For he’s the man you’re after, eh? </span><span id="kobo.373.4">Isn’t that the business? </span><span id="kobo.373.5">Come along, answer! </span><span id="kobo.373.6">Who is the fellow? </span><span id="kobo.373.7">Why are you looking for him? </span><span id="kobo.373.8">What do you know about him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">He calmed himself suddenly, laid his hand on Kesselbach’s shoulder and, harshly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“One word only. </span><span id="kobo.375.2">Yes or no?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">“No!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">He drew a magnificent gold watch from Kesselbach’s fob and placed it on the prisoner’s knees. </span><span id="kobo.377.2">He unbuttoned Kesselbach’s waistcoat, opened his shirt, uncovered his chest and, taking a steel dagger, with a gold-crusted handle, that lay on the table beside him, he put the point of it against the place where the pulsations of the heart made the bare flesh throb:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“For the last time?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">“No!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.380.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.381.1"> Kesselbach, it is eight minutes to three. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">If you don’t answer within eight minutes from now, you are a dead man!”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.384.1">The next morning, Sergeant Gourel walked into the Palace Hotel punctually at the appointed hour. </span><span id="kobo.384.2">Without stopping, scorning to take the lift, he went up the stairs. </span><span id="kobo.384.3">On the fourth floor he turned to the right, followed the passage and rang at the door of 415.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">Hearing no sound, he rang again. </span><span id="kobo.385.2">After half-a-dozen fruitless attempts, he went to the floor office. </span><span id="kobo.385.3">He found a headwaiter there:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.386.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.387.1"> Kesselbach did not sleep here last night. </span><span id="kobo.387.2">We have not seen him since yesterday afternoon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“But his servant? </span><span id="kobo.389.2">His secretary?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">“We have not seen them either.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Then they also did not sleep in the hotel?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">“I suppose not.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">“You suppose not? </span><span id="kobo.393.2">But you ought to be certain.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">“Why? </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.394.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.395.1"> Kesselbach is not staying in the hotel; he is at home here, in his private flat. </span><span id="kobo.395.2">He is not waited on by us, but by his own man; and we know nothing of what happens inside.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">“That’s true.</span><span id="kobo.397.2">﻿ ﻿… That’s true.</span><span id="kobo.397.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">Gourel seemed greatly perplexed. </span><span id="kobo.398.2">He had come with positive orders, a precise mission, within the limits of which his mind was able to exert itself. </span><span id="kobo.398.3">Outside those limits he did not quite know how to act:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">“If the chief were here,” he muttered, “if the chief were here.</span><span id="kobo.399.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">He showed his card and stated his quality. </span><span id="kobo.400.2">Then he said, on the off-chance:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“So you have not seen them come in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">“But you saw them go out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">“No, I can’t say I did.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">“In that case, how do you know that they went out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.406.1">“From a gentleman who called yesterday afternoon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.407.1">“A gentleman with a dark mustache?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.408.2">I met him as he was going away, about three o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.408.3">He said: </span><span id="kobo.408.4">‘The people in 415 have gone out. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.408.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.409.1"> Kesselbach will stay at Versailles tonight, at the Reservoirs; you can send his letters on to him there.’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“But who was this gentleman? </span><span id="kobo.411.2">By what right did he speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.412.1">“I don’t know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">Gourel felt uneasy. </span><span id="kobo.413.2">It all struck him as rather queer.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.414.1">“Have you the key?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.415.1">“No. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.415.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.416.1"> Kesselbach had special keys made.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.418.1">“Let’s go and look.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">Gourel rang again furiously. </span><span id="kobo.419.2">Nothing happened. </span><span id="kobo.419.3">He was about to go when, suddenly, he bent down and clapped his ear to the keyhole:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">“Listen.</span><span id="kobo.420.2">﻿ ﻿… I seem to hear﻿ ﻿… Why, yes﻿ ﻿… it’s quite distinct.</span><span id="kobo.420.3">﻿ ﻿… I hear moans.</span><span id="kobo.420.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">He gave the door a tremendous blow with his fist.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.422.1">“But, sir, you have not the right﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.423.1">“Oh, hang the right!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">He struck the door with renewed force, but to so little purpose that he abandoned the attempt forthwith:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“Quick, quick, a locksmith!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">One of the waiters started off at a run. </span><span id="kobo.426.2">Gourel, blustering and undecided, walked to and fro. </span><span id="kobo.426.3">The servants from the other floors collected in groups. </span><span id="kobo.426.4">People from the office, from the manager’s department arrived. </span><span id="kobo.426.5">Gourel cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">“But why shouldn’t we go in though the adjoining rooms? </span><span id="kobo.427.2">Do they communicate with this suite?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">“Yes; but the communicating doors are always bolted on both sides.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">“Then I shall telephone to the detective-office,” said Gourel, to whose mind obviously there existed no salvation without his chief.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.430.1">“And to the commissary of police,” observed someone.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">“Yes, if you like,” he replied, in the tone of a gentleman who took little or no interest in that formality.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">When he returned from the telephone, the locksmith had nearly finished trying the keys. </span><span id="kobo.432.2">The last worked the lock. </span><span id="kobo.432.3">Gourel walked briskly in.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">He at once hastened in the direction from which the moans came and hit against the bodies of Chapman the secretary, and Edwards the manservant. </span><span id="kobo.433.2">One of them, Chapman, had succeeded, by dint of patience, in loosening his gag a little and was uttering short, stifled moans. </span><span id="kobo.433.3">The other seemed asleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">They were released. </span><span id="kobo.434.2">But Gourel was anxious:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">“Where’s </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.435.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.436.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">He went into the sitting-room. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.438.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.439.1"> Kesselbach was sitting strapped to the back of the armchair, near the table. </span><span id="kobo.439.2">His head hung on his chest.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.441.1">“He has fainted,” said Gourel, going up to him. </span><span id="kobo.441.2">“He must have exerted himself beyond his strength.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">Swiftly he cut the cords that fastened the shoulders. </span><span id="kobo.442.2">The body fell forward in an inert mass. </span><span id="kobo.442.3">Gourel caught it in his arms and started back with a cry of horror:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“Why, he’s dead! </span><span id="kobo.443.2">Feel﻿ ﻿… his hands are ice-cold! </span><span id="kobo.443.3">And look at his eyes!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.444.1">Someone ventured the opinion:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">“An apoplectic stroke, no doubt﻿ ﻿… or else heart-failure.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">“True, there’s no sign of a wound﻿ ﻿… it’s a natural death.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">They laid the body on the sofa and unfastened the clothes. </span><span id="kobo.447.2">But red stains at once appeared on the white shirt; and, when they pushed it back, they saw that, near the heart, the chest bore a little scratch through which had trickled a thin stream of blood.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.448.1">And on the shirt was pinned a card. </span><span id="kobo.448.2">Gourel bent forward. </span><span id="kobo.448.3">It was Arsène Lupin’s card, bloodstained like the rest.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.449.1">Then Gourel drew himself up, authoritatively and sharply:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">“Murdered!</span><span id="kobo.450.2">﻿ ﻿… Arsène Lupin!</span><span id="kobo.450.3">﻿ ﻿… Leave the flat.</span><span id="kobo.450.4">﻿ ﻿… Leave the flat, all of you!</span><span id="kobo.450.5">﻿ ﻿… No one must stay here or in the bedroom.</span><span id="kobo.450.6">﻿ ﻿… Let the two men be removed and seen to elsewhere!</span><span id="kobo.450.7">﻿ ﻿… Leave the flat﻿ ﻿… and don’t touch a thing﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.451.1">“</span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.451.2">The chief is on his way!</span><span id="kobo.451.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></em><span id="kobo.452.1">”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>