<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>VII: Parbury-Ribeira-Altenheim</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-7" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">VII</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">Parbury-Ribeira-Altenheim</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">The girls were playing in the garden, under the supervision of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.4.2">Mlle.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.5.1"> Charlotte, Geneviève’s new assistant. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.6.1">Mme.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.7.1"> Ernemont came out, distributed some cakes among them and then went back to the room which served as a drawing-room and parlor in one, sat down before a writing-desk and began to arrange her papers and account-books.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">Suddenly, she felt the presence of a stranger in the room. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">She turned round in alarm:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“You!” </span><span id="kobo.10.2">she cried. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">“Where have you come from? </span><span id="kobo.10.4">How did you get in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“Hush!” </span><span id="kobo.11.2">said Prince Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.11.3">“Listen to me and do not let us waste a minute: </span><span id="kobo.11.4">Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“Calling on </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.12.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.13.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“When will she be here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Not before an hour.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“Then I will let the brothers Doudeville come. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">I have an appointment with them. </span><span id="kobo.17.3">How is Geneviève?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“Very well.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“How often has she seen Pierre Leduc since I went away, ten days ago?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“Three times; and she is to meet him today at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.20.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.21.1"> Kesselbach’s, to whom she introduced him, as you said she must. </span><span id="kobo.21.2">Only, I may as well tell you that I don’t think much of this Pierre Leduc of yours. </span><span id="kobo.21.3">Geneviève would do better to find some good fellow in her own class of life. </span><span id="kobo.21.4">For instance, there’s the schoolmaster.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“You’re mad! </span><span id="kobo.23.2">Geneviève marry a schoolmaster!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“Oh, if you considered Geneviève’s happiness first.</span><span id="kobo.24.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“Shut up, Victoire. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">You’re boring me with your cackle. </span><span id="kobo.25.3">I have no time to waste on sentiment. </span><span id="kobo.25.4">I’m playing a game of chess; and I move my men without troubling about what they think. </span><span id="kobo.25.5">When I have won the game, I will go into the question whether the knight, Pierre Leduc, and the queen, Geneviève, have a heart or not.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">She interrupted him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“Did you hear? </span><span id="kobo.27.2">A whistle.</span><span id="kobo.27.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">“It’s the two Doudevilles. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">Go and bring them in; and then leave us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">As soon as the two brothers were in the room, he questioned them with his usual precision:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">“I know what the newspapers have said about the disappearance of Lenormand and Gourel. </span><span id="kobo.30.2">Do you know any more?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.31.2">The deputy-chief, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.31.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.32.1"> Weber, has taken the case in hand. </span><span id="kobo.32.2">We have been searching the garden of the House of Retreat for the past week; and nobody is able to explain how they can have disappeared. </span><span id="kobo.32.3">The whole force is in a flutter.</span><span id="kobo.32.4">﻿ ﻿… No one has ever seen the like﻿ ﻿… a chief of the detective-service disappearing, without leaving a trace behind him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“The two maids?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">“Gertrude has gone. </span><span id="kobo.35.2">She is being looked for.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">“Her sister Suzanne?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.37.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.38.1"> Weber and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.39.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.40.1"> Formerie have questioned her. </span><span id="kobo.40.2">There is nothing against her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“Is that all you have to tell me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“Oh, no, there are other things, all the things which we did not tell the papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">They then described the incidents that had marked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.44.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.45.1"> Lenormand’s last two days: </span><span id="kobo.45.2">the night visit of the two ruffians to Pierre Leduc’s villa; next day, Ribeira’s attempt to kidnap Geneviève and the chase through the Saint-Cucufa woods; old Steinweg’s arrival, his examination at the detective-office in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.46.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.47.1"> Kesselbach’s presence, his escape from the Palais.</span><span id="kobo.47.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“And no one knows these details except yourselves?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“Dieuzy knows about the Steinweg incident: </span><span id="kobo.50.2">he told us of it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“And they still trust you at the Prefecture of Police?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“So much so that they employ us openly. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.52.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.53.1"> Weber swears by us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“Come,” said the prince, “all is not lost. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">If </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.55.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.56.1"> Lenormand has committed an imprudence that has cost him his life, as I suppose he did, at any rate he performed some good work first; and we have only to continue it. </span><span id="kobo.56.2">The enemy has the start of us, but we will catch him up.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">“It won’t be an easy job, governor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Why not? </span><span id="kobo.59.2">It is only a matter of finding old Steinweg again, for the answer to the riddle is in his hands.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“Yes, but where has Ribeira got old Steinweg tucked away?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“At his own place, of course.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Then we should have to know where Ribeira hangs out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“Well, of course!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">He dismissed them and went to the House of Retreat. </span><span id="kobo.64.2">Motorcars were awaiting outside the door and two men were walking up and down, as though mounting guard.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">In the garden, near </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.65.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.66.1"> Kesselbach’s house, he saw Geneviève sitting on a bench with Pierre Leduc and a thickset gentleman wearing a single eyeglass. </span><span id="kobo.66.2">The three were talking and none of them saw him. </span><span id="kobo.66.3">But several people came out of the house: </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.67.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.68.1"> Formerie, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.69.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.70.1"> Weber, a magistrate’s clerk, and two inspectors. </span><span id="kobo.70.2">Geneviève went indoors and the gentleman with the eyeglass went up and spoke to the examining-magistrate and the deputy-chief of the detective-service and walked away with them slowly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">Sernine came beside the bench where Pierre Leduc was sitting and whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“Don’t move, Pierre Leduc; it’s I.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“You!</span><span id="kobo.74.2">﻿ ﻿… you!</span><span id="kobo.74.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">It was the third time that the young man saw Sernine since the awful night at Versailles; and each time it upset him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“Tell me﻿ ﻿… who is the fellow with the eyeglass?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">Pierre Leduc turned pale and jabbered. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">Sernine pinched his arm:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“Answer me, confound it! </span><span id="kobo.78.2">Who is he?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“Baron Altenheim.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“Where does he come from?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“He was a friend of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.81.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.82.1"> Kesselbach’s. </span><span id="kobo.82.2">He arrived from Austria, six days ago, and placed himself at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.83.1">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.84.1"> Kesselbach’s disposal.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">The police authorities had, meanwhile, gone out of the garden; Baron Altenheim also.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">The prince rose and, turning towards the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.87.2">Pavillon de l’Impératrice</span><span id="kobo.88.1">, continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">“Has the baron asked you many questions?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“Yes, a great many. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">He is interested in my case. </span><span id="kobo.91.3">He wants to help me find my family. </span><span id="kobo.91.4">He appealed to my childhood memories.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“And what did you say?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“Nothing, because I know nothing. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">What memories have I? </span><span id="kobo.93.3">You put me in another’s place and I don’t even know who that other is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“No more do I!” </span><span id="kobo.94.2">chuckled the prince. </span><span id="kobo.94.3">“And that’s just what makes your case so quaint.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“Oh, it’s all very well for you to laugh﻿ ﻿… you’re always laughing!</span><span id="kobo.95.2">﻿ ﻿… But I’m beginning to have enough of it.</span><span id="kobo.95.3">﻿ ﻿… I’m mixed up in a heap of nasty matters﻿ ﻿… to say nothing of the danger which I run in pretending to be somebody that I am not.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">“What do you mean﻿ ﻿… that you are not? </span><span id="kobo.96.2">You’re quite as much a duke as I am a prince﻿ ﻿… perhaps even more so.</span><span id="kobo.96.3">﻿ ﻿… Besides, if you’re not a duke, hurry up and become one, hang it all! </span><span id="kobo.96.4">Geneviève can’t marry anyone but a duke! </span><span id="kobo.96.5">Look at her: </span><span id="kobo.96.6">isn’t she worth selling your soul for?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">He did not even look at Leduc, not caring what he thought. </span><span id="kobo.97.2">They had reached the house by this time; and Geneviève appeared at the foot of the steps, comely and smiling:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“So you have returned?” </span><span id="kobo.98.2">she said to the prince. </span><span id="kobo.98.3">“Ah, that’s a good thing! </span><span id="kobo.98.4">I am so glad.</span><span id="kobo.98.5">﻿ ﻿… Do you want to see Dolores?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">After a moment, she showed him into </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.99.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.100.1"> Kesselbach’s room. </span><span id="kobo.100.2">The prince was taken aback. </span><span id="kobo.100.3">Dolores was paler still and thinner than on the day when he saw her last. </span><span id="kobo.100.4">Lying on a sofa, wrapped up in white stuffs, she looked like one of those sick people who have ceased to struggle against death. </span><span id="kobo.100.5">As for her, she had ceased to struggle against life, against the fate that was overwhelming her with its blows.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">Sernine gazed at her with deep pity and with an emotion which he did not strive to conceal. </span><span id="kobo.102.2">She thanked him for the sympathy which he showed her. </span><span id="kobo.102.3">She also spoke of Baron Altenheim, in friendly terms.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“Did you know him before?” </span><span id="kobo.103.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">“Yes, by name, and through his intimacy with my husband.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">“I have met an Altenheim who lives in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.105.2">Rue de Rivoli</span><span id="kobo.106.1">. </span><span id="kobo.106.2">Do you think it’s the same?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“Oh, no, this one lives in﻿ ﻿… As a matter of fact, I don’t quite know; he gave me his address, but I can’t say that I remember it.</span><span id="kobo.108.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">After a few minutes’ conversation, Sernine took his leave. </span><span id="kobo.109.2">Geneviève was waiting for him in the hall:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">“I want to speak to you,” she said eagerly, “on a serious matter.</span><span id="kobo.110.2">﻿ ﻿… Did you see him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">“Whom?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“Baron Altenheim.</span><span id="kobo.112.2">﻿ ﻿… But that’s not his name﻿ ﻿… or, at least, he has another.</span><span id="kobo.112.3">﻿ ﻿… I recognized him﻿ ﻿… he does not know it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">She dragged him out of doors and walked on in great excitement.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Calm yourself, Geneviève.</span><span id="kobo.114.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“He’s the man who tried to carry me off.</span><span id="kobo.115.2">﻿ ﻿… But for that poor </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.115.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.116.1"> Lenormand, I should have been done for.</span><span id="kobo.116.2">﻿ ﻿… Come, you must know, for you know everything.</span><span id="kobo.116.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Then his real name is﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“Ribeira.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“Are you sure?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“It was no use his changing his appearance, his accent, his manner: </span><span id="kobo.121.2">I knew him at once, by the horror with which he inspires me. </span><span id="kobo.121.3">But I said nothing﻿ ﻿… until you returned.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“You said nothing to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.122.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.123.1"> Kesselbach either?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.125.2">She seemed so happy at meeting a friend of her husband’s. </span><span id="kobo.125.3">But you will speak to her about it, will you not? </span><span id="kobo.125.4">You will protect her.</span><span id="kobo.125.5">﻿ ﻿… I don’t know what he is preparing against her, against myself.</span><span id="kobo.125.6">﻿ ﻿… Now that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.125.7">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.126.1"> Lenormand is no longer there, he has nothing to fear, he does as he pleases. </span><span id="kobo.126.2">Who can unmask him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">“I can. </span><span id="kobo.128.2">I will be responsible for everything. </span><span id="kobo.128.3">But not a word to anybody.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">They had reached the porter’s lodge. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">The gate was opened. </span><span id="kobo.129.3">The prince said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“Goodbye, Geneviève, and be quite easy in your mind. </span><span id="kobo.130.2">I am there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">He shut the gate, turned round and gave a slight start. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">Opposite him stood the man with the eyeglass, Baron Altenheim, with his head held well up, his broad shoulders, his powerful frame.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">They looked at each other for two or three seconds, in silence. </span><span id="kobo.132.2">The baron smiled.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">Then the baron said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“I was waiting for you, Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">For all his self-mastery, Sernine felt a thrill pass over him. </span><span id="kobo.135.2">He had come to unmask his adversary; and his adversary had unmasked him at the first onset. </span><span id="kobo.135.3">And, at the same time, the adversary was accepting the contest boldly, brazenly, as though he felt sure of victory. </span><span id="kobo.135.4">It was a swaggering thing to do and gave evidence of no small amount of pluck.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">The two men, violently hostile one to the other, took each other’s measure with their eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“And what then?” </span><span id="kobo.137.2">asked Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“What then? </span><span id="kobo.138.2">Don’t you think we have occasion for a meeting?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.139.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.140.1">“I want to talk to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“What day will suit you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“Tomorrow. </span><span id="kobo.142.2">Let us lunch together at a restaurant.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“Why not at your place?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“You don’t know my address.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“Yes, I do.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">With a swift movement, the prince pulled out a newspaper protruding from Altenheim’s pocket, a paper still in its addressed wrapper, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.147.2">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.148.1"> 29, Villa Dupont.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">“Well played!” </span><span id="kobo.150.2">said the other. </span><span id="kobo.150.3">“Then we’ll say, tomorrow, at my place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“Tomorrow, at your place. </span><span id="kobo.151.2">At what time?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">“One o’clock.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“I shall be there. </span><span id="kobo.153.2">Goodbye.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">They were about to walk away. </span><span id="kobo.154.2">Altenheim stopped:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Oh, one word more, prince. </span><span id="kobo.155.2">Bring a weapon with you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">“I keep four menservants and you will be alone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">“I have my fists,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.158.2">“We shall be on even terms.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">He turned his back on him and then, calling him back:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“Oh, one word more, baron. </span><span id="kobo.160.2">Engage four more servants.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“I have thought it over. </span><span id="kobo.162.2">I shall bring my whip.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.164.1">At one o’clock the next day, precisely, a horseman rode through the gate of the so-called Villa Dupont, a peaceful, countrified private road, the only entrance to which is in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.164.2">Rue Pergolèse</span><span id="kobo.165.1">, close to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.166.1">Avenue du Bois</span><span id="kobo.167.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">It is lined with gardens and handsome private houses; and, right at the end, it is closed by a sort of little park containing a large old house, behind which runs the Paris circular railway. </span><span id="kobo.169.2">It was here, at </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.169.3">No.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.170.1"> 29, that Baron Altenheim lived.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">Sernine flung the reins of his horse to a groom whom he had sent on ahead and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“Bring him back at half-past two.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">He rang the bell. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">The garden-gate opened and he walked to the front-door steps, where he was awaited by two tall men in livery who ushered him into an immense, cold, stone hall, devoid of any ornament. </span><span id="kobo.174.3">The door closed behind him with a heavy thud; and, great and indomitable as his courage was, he nevertheless underwent an unpleasant sensation at feeling himself alone, surrounded by enemies, in that isolated prison.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“Say Prince Sernine.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">The drawing-room was near and he was shown straight in.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Ah, there you are, my dear prince!” </span><span id="kobo.177.2">said the baron, coming toward him. </span><span id="kobo.177.3">“Well, will you believe﻿—Dominique, lunch in twenty minutes. </span><span id="kobo.177.4">Until then, don’t let us be interrupted﻿—will you believe, my dear prince, that I hardly expected to see you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">“Oh, really? </span><span id="kobo.178.2">Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">“Well, your declaration of war, this morning, is so plain that an interview becomes superfluous.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“My declaration of war?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">The baron unfolded a copy of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.181.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.182.1"> and pointed to a paragraph which ran as follows:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.184.1">“We are authoritatively informed that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.184.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.185.1"> Lenormand’s disappearance has roused Arsène Lupin into taking action. </span><span id="kobo.185.2">After a brief enquiry and following on his proposal to clear up the Kesselbach case, Arsène Lupin has decided that he will find </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.186.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.187.1"> Lenormand, alive or dead, and that he will deliver the author or authors of that heinous series of crimes to justice.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“This authoritative pronouncement comes from you, my dear prince, of course?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Yes, it comes from me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Therefore, I was right: </span><span id="kobo.192.2">it means war.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">Altenheim gave Sernine a chair, sat down himself and said, in a conciliatory tone:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“Well, no, I cannot allow that. </span><span id="kobo.195.2">It is impossible that two men like ourselves should fight and injure each other. </span><span id="kobo.195.3">We have only to come to an explanation, to seek the means: </span><span id="kobo.195.4">you and I were made to understand each other.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">“I think, on the contrary, that two men like ourselves are not made to understand each other.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">The baron suppressed a movement of impatience and continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">“Listen to me, Lupin.</span><span id="kobo.198.2">﻿ ﻿… By the way, do you mind my calling you Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“What shall I call you? </span><span id="kobo.199.2">Altenheim, Ribeira, or Parbury?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">“Oho! </span><span id="kobo.200.2">I see that you are even better posted than I thought!</span><span id="kobo.200.3">﻿ ﻿… Hang it all, but you’re jolly smart!</span><span id="kobo.200.4">﻿ ﻿… All the more reason why we should agree.” </span><span id="kobo.200.5">And, bending toward him, “Listen, Lupin, and ponder my words well; I have weighed them carefully, every one. </span><span id="kobo.200.6">Look here.</span><span id="kobo.200.7">﻿ ﻿… We two are evenly matched.</span><span id="kobo.200.8">﻿ ﻿… Does that make you smile? </span><span id="kobo.200.9">You are wrong: </span><span id="kobo.200.10">it may be that you possess resources which I do not; but I have others of which you know nothing. </span><span id="kobo.200.11">Moreover, as you are aware, I have few scruples, some skill and a capacity for changing my personality which an expert like yourself ought to appreciate. </span><span id="kobo.200.12">In short, the two adversaries are each as good as the other. </span><span id="kobo.200.13">But one question remains unanswered: </span><span id="kobo.200.14">why are we adversaries? </span><span id="kobo.200.15">We are pursuing the same object, you will say? </span><span id="kobo.200.16">And what then? </span><span id="kobo.200.17">Do you know what will come of our rivalry? </span><span id="kobo.200.18">Each of us will paralyze the efforts and destroy the work of the other; and we shall both miss our aim! </span><span id="kobo.200.19">And for whose benefit? </span><span id="kobo.200.20">Some Lenormand or other, a third rogue!</span><span id="kobo.200.21">﻿ ﻿… It’s really too silly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">“It’s really too silly, as you say,” Sernine admitted. </span><span id="kobo.201.2">“But there is a remedy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“What is that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“For you to withdraw.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Don’t chaff. </span><span id="kobo.204.2">I am serious. </span><span id="kobo.204.3">The proposal which I am going to make is not one to be rejected without examination. </span><span id="kobo.204.4">Here it is, in two words: </span><span id="kobo.204.5">let’s be partners!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“I say!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“Of course, each of us will continue free where his own affairs are concerned. </span><span id="kobo.206.2">But, for the business in question, let us combine our efforts. </span><span id="kobo.206.3">Does that suit you? </span><span id="kobo.206.4">Hand in hand and share alike.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">“What do you bring?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">“I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“Yes, you know what I’m worth; I’ve delivered my proofs. </span><span id="kobo.209.2">In the alliance which you are proposing, you know the figure, so to speak of my marriage-portion. </span><span id="kobo.209.3">What’s yours?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Steinweg.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“That’s not much.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“It’s immense. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">Through Steinweg, we learn the truth about Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.212.3">Through Steinweg, we get to know what the famous Kesselbach plan is all about.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">Sernine burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“And you need me for that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“I don’t understand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“Come, old chap, your offer is childish. </span><span id="kobo.216.2">You have Steinweg in your hands. </span><span id="kobo.216.3">If you wish for my collaboration, it is because you have not succeeded in making him speak. </span><span id="kobo.216.4">But for that fact, you would do without my services.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">“Well, what of it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“I refuse.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">The two men stood up to each other once more, violent and implacable.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">“I refuse,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.220.2">“Lupin requires nobody, in order to act. </span><span id="kobo.220.3">I am one of those who walk alone. </span><span id="kobo.220.4">If you were my equal, as you pretend, the idea of a partnership would never have entered your head. </span><span id="kobo.220.5">The man who has the stature of a leader commands. </span><span id="kobo.220.6">Union implies obedience. </span><span id="kobo.220.7">I do not obey.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“You refuse? </span><span id="kobo.221.2">You refuse?” </span><span id="kobo.221.3">repeated Altenheim, turning pale under the insult.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“All that I can do for you, old chap, is to offer you a place in my band. </span><span id="kobo.222.2">You’ll be a private soldier, to begin with. </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Under my orders, you shall see how a general wins a battle﻿ ﻿… and how he pockets the booty, by himself and for himself. </span><span id="kobo.222.4">Does that suit you﻿ ﻿… Tommy?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">Altenheim was beside himself with fury. </span><span id="kobo.223.2">He gnashed his teeth:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“You are making a mistake, Lupin,” he mumbled, “you are making a mistake.</span><span id="kobo.224.2">﻿ ﻿… I don’t want anybody either; and this business gives me no more difficulty than plenty of others which I have pulled off.</span><span id="kobo.224.3">﻿ ﻿… What I said was said in order to effect our object more quickly and without inconveniencing each other.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">“You’re not inconveniencing me,” said Lupin, scornfully.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“Look here! </span><span id="kobo.226.2">If we don’t combine, only one of us will succeed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">“That’s good enough for me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“And he will only succeed by passing over the other’s body. </span><span id="kobo.228.2">Are you prepared for that sort of duel, Lupin? </span><span id="kobo.228.3">A duel to the death, do you understand?</span><span id="kobo.228.4">﻿ ﻿… The knife is a method which you despise; but suppose you received one, Lupin, right in the throat?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“Aha! </span><span id="kobo.229.2">So, when all is said, that’s what you propose?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“No, I am not very fond of shedding blood.</span><span id="kobo.230.2">﻿ ﻿… Look at my fists: </span><span id="kobo.230.3">I strike﻿ ﻿… and my man falls.</span><span id="kobo.230.4">﻿ ﻿… I have special blows of my own.</span><span id="kobo.230.5">﻿ ﻿… But </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.230.6">the other one</span></em><span id="kobo.231.1"> kills﻿ ﻿… remember﻿ ﻿… the little wound in the throat.</span><span id="kobo.231.2">﻿ ﻿… Ah, Lupin, beware of him, beware of that one!</span><span id="kobo.231.3">﻿ ﻿… He is terrible, he is implacable.</span><span id="kobo.231.4">﻿ ﻿… Nothing stops him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">He spoke these words in a low voice and with such excitement that Sernine shuddered at the hideous thought of the unknown murderer:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“Baron,” he sneered, “one would think you were afraid of your accomplice!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“I am afraid for the others, for those who bar our road, for you, Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.235.2">Accept, or you are lost. </span><span id="kobo.235.3">I shall act myself, if necessary. </span><span id="kobo.235.4">The goal is too near﻿ ﻿… I have my hand on it.</span><span id="kobo.235.5">﻿ ﻿… Get out of my way, Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">He was all energy and exasperated will. </span><span id="kobo.236.2">He spoke forcibly and so brutally that he seemed ready to strike his enemy then and there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">Sernine shrugged his shoulders:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“Lord, how hungry I am!” </span><span id="kobo.238.2">he said, yawning. </span><span id="kobo.238.3">“What a time to lunch at!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">The door opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“Lunch is served, sir,” said the butler.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Ah, that’s good hearing!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">In the doorway, Altenheim caught Sernine by the arm and, disregarding the servant’s presence:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“If you take my advice﻿ ﻿… accept. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">This is a serious moment in your life﻿ ﻿… and you will do better, I swear to you, you will do better﻿ ﻿… to accept.</span><span id="kobo.243.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“Caviar!” </span><span id="kobo.244.2">cried Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.244.3">“Now, that’s too sweet of you.</span><span id="kobo.244.4">﻿ ﻿… You remembered that you were entertaining a Russian prince!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">They sat down facing each other, with the baron’s greyhound, a large animal with long, silver hair, between them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Let me introduce Sirius, my most faithful friend.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“A fellow-countryman,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.247.2">“I shall never forget the one which the Tsar was good enough to give me when I had the honor to save his life.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“Ah, you had that honor﻿ ﻿… a terrorist conspiracy, no doubt?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">“Yes, a conspiracy got up by myself. </span><span id="kobo.249.2">You must know, this dog﻿—its name, by the way, was Sebastopol.</span><span id="kobo.249.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">The lunch continued merrily. </span><span id="kobo.250.2">Altenheim had recovered his good humor and the two men vied with each other in wit and politeness. </span><span id="kobo.250.3">Sernine told anecdotes which the baron capped with others; and it was a succession of stories of hunting, sport and travel, in which the oldest names in Europe were constantly cropping up: </span><span id="kobo.250.4">Spanish grandees, English lords, Hungarian magyars, Austrian archdukes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“Ah,” said Sernine, “what a fine profession is ours! </span><span id="kobo.251.2">It brings us into touch with all the best people. </span><span id="kobo.251.3">Here, Sirius, a bit of this truffled chicken!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">The dog did not take his eyes off him, and snapped at everything that Sernine gave it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“A glass of Chambertin, prince?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“With pleasure, baron.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“I can recommend it. </span><span id="kobo.255.2">It comes from King Leopold’s cellar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“A present?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">“Yes, a present I made myself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">“It’s delicious.</span><span id="kobo.258.2">﻿ ﻿… What a bouquet!</span><span id="kobo.258.3">﻿ ﻿… With this </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.258.4">pâté de foie gras</span><span id="kobo.259.1">, it’s simply wonderful!</span><span id="kobo.259.2">﻿ ﻿… I must congratulate you, baron; you have a first-rate chef.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“My chef is a woman-cook, prince. </span><span id="kobo.261.2">I bribed her with untold gold to leave Levraud, the socialist deputy. </span><span id="kobo.261.3">I say, try this hot chocolate-ice; and let me call your special attention to the little dry cakes that go with it. </span><span id="kobo.261.4">They’re an invention of genius, those cakes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“The shape is charming, in any case,” said Sernine, helping himself. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">“If they taste as good as they look.</span><span id="kobo.262.3">﻿ ﻿… Here, Sirius, you’re sure to like this. </span><span id="kobo.262.4">Locusta herself could not have done better.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">He took one of the cakes and gave it to the dog. </span><span id="kobo.263.2">Sirius swallowed it at a gulp, stood motionless for two or three seconds, as though dazed, then turned in a circle and fell to the floor dead.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">Sernine started back from his chair, lest one of the footmen should fall upon him unawares. </span><span id="kobo.264.2">Then he burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“Look here, baron, next time you want to poison one of your friends, try to steady your voice and to keep your hands from shaking.</span><span id="kobo.265.2">﻿ ﻿… Otherwise, people suspect you.</span><span id="kobo.265.3">﻿ ﻿… But I thought you disliked murder?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“With the knife, yes,” said Altenheim, quite unperturbed. </span><span id="kobo.266.2">“But I have always had a wish to poison someone. </span><span id="kobo.266.3">I wanted to see what it was like.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“By Jove, old chap, you choose your subjects well! </span><span id="kobo.267.2">A Russian prince!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">He walked up to Altenheim and, in a confidential tone, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">“Do you know what would have happened if you had succeeded, that is to say, if my friends had not seen me return at three o’clock at the latest? </span><span id="kobo.269.2">Well, at half-past three the prefect of police would have known exactly all that there was to know about the so-called Baron Altenheim; and the said baron would have been copped before the day was out and clapped into jail.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“Pooh!” </span><span id="kobo.270.2">said Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.270.3">“Prison one escapes from﻿ ﻿… whereas one does not come back from the kingdom where I was sending you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“True, but you would have to send me there first; and that’s not so easy.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“I only wanted a mouthful of one of those cakes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“Are you quite sure?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“Try.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“One thing’s certain, my lad: </span><span id="kobo.275.2">you haven’t the stuff yet which great adventurers are made of; and I doubt if you’ll ever have it, considering the sort of traps you lay for me. </span><span id="kobo.275.3">A man who thinks himself worthy of leading the life which you and I have the honor to lead must also be fit to lead it, and, for that, must be prepared for every eventuality: </span><span id="kobo.275.4">he must even be prepared not to die if some ragamuffin or other tries to poison him.</span><span id="kobo.275.5">﻿ ﻿… An undaunted soul in an unassailable body: </span><span id="kobo.275.6">that is the ideal which he must set before himself﻿ ﻿… and attain. </span><span id="kobo.275.7">Try away, old chap. </span><span id="kobo.275.8">As for me, I am undaunted and unassailable. </span><span id="kobo.275.9">Remember King Mithridates!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">He went back to his chair:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“Let’s finish our lunch. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">But as I like proving the virtues to which I lay claim, and as, on the other hand, I don’t want to hurt your cook’s feelings, just pass me that plate of cakes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">He took one of them, broke it in two and held out one half to the baron:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">“Eat that!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">The other gave a movement of recoil.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“Funk!” </span><span id="kobo.281.2">said Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">And, before the wondering eyes of the baron and his satellites, he began to eat the first and then the second half of the cake, quietly, conscientiously, as a man eats a dainty of which he would hate to miss the smallest morsel.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.284.1">They met again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">That same evening, Prince Sernine invited Baron Altenheim to dinner at the Cabaret Vatel, with a party consisting of a poet, a musician, a financier and two pretty actresses, members of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.285.2">Théâtre Français</span><span id="kobo.286.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">The next day, they lunched together in the Bois and, at night, they met at the Opéra.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">They saw each other every day for a week. </span><span id="kobo.289.2">One would have thought that they could not do without each other and that they were united by a great friendship, built up of mutual confidence, sympathy and esteem.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">They had a capital time, drinking good wine, smoking excellent cigars, and laughing like two madmen.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">In reality, they were watching each other fiercely. </span><span id="kobo.291.2">Mortal enemies, separated by a merciless hatred, each feeling sure of winning and longing for victory with an unbridled will, they waited for the propitious moment: </span><span id="kobo.291.3">Altenheim to do away with Sernine; and Sernine to hurl Altenheim into the pit which he was digging for him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">Each knew that the catastrophe could not be long delayed. </span><span id="kobo.292.2">One or other of them must meet with his doom; and it was a question of hours, or, at most, of days.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">It was an exciting tragedy, and one of which a man like Sernine was bound to relish the strange and powerful zest. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">To know your adversary and to live by his side; to feel that death is waiting for you at the least false step, at the least act of thoughtlessness: </span><span id="kobo.293.3">what a joy, what a delight!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">One evening, they were alone together in the garden of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.294.2">Rue Cambon</span><span id="kobo.295.1"> Club, to which Altenheim also belonged. </span><span id="kobo.295.2">It was the hour before dusk, in the month of June, at which men begin to dine before the members come in for the evening’s card-play. </span><span id="kobo.295.3">They were strolling round a little lawn, along which ran a wall lined with shrubs. </span><span id="kobo.295.4">Beyond the shrubs was a small door. </span><span id="kobo.295.5">Suddenly, while Altenheim was speaking, Sernine received the impression that his voice became less steady, that it was almost trembling. </span><span id="kobo.295.6">He watched him out of the corner of his eye. </span><span id="kobo.295.7">Altenheim had his hand in the pocket of his jacket; and Sernine </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.296.1">saw</span></em><span id="kobo.297.1"> that hand, through the cloth, clutch the handle of a dagger, hesitating, wavering, resolute and weak by turns.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">O exquisite moment! </span><span id="kobo.299.2">Was he going to strike? </span><span id="kobo.299.3">Which would gain the day: </span><span id="kobo.299.4">the timid instinct that dare not, or the conscious will, intense upon the act of killing?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">His chest flung out, his arms behind his back, Sernine waited, with alternate thrills of pleasure and of pain. </span><span id="kobo.300.2">The baron had ceased talking; and they now walked on in silence, side by side.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“Well, why don’t you strike?” </span><span id="kobo.301.2">cried the prince, impatiently. </span><span id="kobo.301.3">He had stopped and, turning to his companion: </span><span id="kobo.301.4">“Strike!” </span><span id="kobo.301.5">he said. </span><span id="kobo.301.6">“This is the time or never. </span><span id="kobo.301.7">There is no one to see you. </span><span id="kobo.301.8">You can slip out through that little door; the key happens to be hanging on the wall; and goodbye, baron﻿ ﻿… unseen and unknown!</span><span id="kobo.301.9">﻿ ﻿… But, of course, all this was arranged﻿ ﻿… you brought me here.</span><span id="kobo.301.10">﻿ ﻿… And you’re hesitating! </span><span id="kobo.301.11">Why on earth don’t you strike?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">He looked him straight in the eyes. </span><span id="kobo.302.2">The other was livid, quivering with impotent strength.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“You milksop!” </span><span id="kobo.303.2">Sernine sneered. </span><span id="kobo.303.3">“I shall never make anything of you. </span><span id="kobo.303.4">Shall I tell you the truth? </span><span id="kobo.303.5">Well, you’re afraid of me. </span><span id="kobo.303.6">Yes, old chap, you never feel quite sure what may happen to you when you’re face to face with me. </span><span id="kobo.303.7">You want to act, whereas it’s my acts, my possible acts that govern the situation. </span><span id="kobo.303.8">No, it’s quite clear that you’re not the man yet to put out my star!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">He had not finished speaking when he felt himself seized round the throat and dragged backward. </span><span id="kobo.304.2">Someone hiding in the shrubbery, near the little door, had caught him by the head. </span><span id="kobo.304.3">He saw a hand raised, armed with a knife with a gleaming blade. </span><span id="kobo.304.4">The hand fell; the point of the knife caught him right in the throat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">At the same moment Altenheim sprang upon him to finish him off; and they rolled over into the flower-borders. </span><span id="kobo.305.2">It was a matter of twenty or thirty seconds at most. </span><span id="kobo.305.3">Powerful and experienced wrestler as he was, Altenheim yielded almost immediately, uttering a cry of pain. </span><span id="kobo.305.4">Sernine rose and ran to the little door, which had just closed upon a dark form. </span><span id="kobo.305.5">It was too late. </span><span id="kobo.305.6">He heard the key turn in the lock. </span><span id="kobo.305.7">He was unable to open it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“Ah, you scoundrel!” </span><span id="kobo.306.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.306.3">“The day on which I catch you will be the day on which I shed my first blood! </span><span id="kobo.306.4">That I swear to God!</span><span id="kobo.306.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">He went back, stooped and picked up the pieces of the knife, which had broken as it struck him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">Altenheim was beginning to move. </span><span id="kobo.308.2">Sernine asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“Well, baron, feeling better? </span><span id="kobo.309.2">You didn’t know that blow, eh? </span><span id="kobo.309.3">It’s what I call the direct blow in the solar plexus; that is to say, it snuffs out your vital sun like a candle. </span><span id="kobo.309.4">It’s clean, quick, painless﻿ ﻿… and infallible. </span><span id="kobo.309.5">Whereas a blow with a dagger﻿ ﻿… ? </span><span id="kobo.309.6">Pooh! </span><span id="kobo.309.7">A man has only to wear a little steel-wove gorget, as I do, and he can set the whole world at defiance, especially your little pal in black, seeing that he always strikes at the throat, the silly monster!</span><span id="kobo.309.8">﻿ ﻿… Here, look at his favorite plaything﻿ ﻿… smashed to atoms!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">He offered him his hand:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“Come, get up, baron. </span><span id="kobo.311.2">You shall dine with me. </span><span id="kobo.311.3">And do please remember the secret of my superiority: </span><span id="kobo.311.4">an undaunted soul in an unassailable body.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">He went back to the club rooms, reserved a table for two, sat down on a sofa, and while waiting for dinner, soliloquized, under his breath:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“It’s certainly an amusing game, but it’s becoming dangerous. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">I must get it over﻿ ﻿… otherwise those beggars will send me to Paradise earlier than I want to go. </span><span id="kobo.313.3">The nuisance is that I can’t do anything before I find old Steinweg, for, when all is said, old Steinweg is the only interesting factor in the whole business; and my one reason for sticking to the baron is that I keep on hoping to pick up some clue or other. </span><span id="kobo.313.4">What the devil have they done with him? </span><span id="kobo.313.5">Altenheim is in daily communication with him: </span><span id="kobo.313.6">that is beyond a doubt; it is equally beyond a doubt that he is doing his utmost to drag out of him what he knows about the Kesselbach scheme. </span><span id="kobo.313.7">But where does he see him? </span><span id="kobo.313.8">Where has he got him shut up? </span><span id="kobo.313.9">With friends? </span><span id="kobo.313.10">In his own house, at 29, Villa Dupont?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">He reflected for some time, then lit a cigarette, took three puffs at it and threw it away. </span><span id="kobo.314.2">This was evidently a signal, for two young men came and sat down beside him. </span><span id="kobo.314.3">He did not seem to know them, but he conversed with them by stealth. </span><span id="kobo.314.4">It was the brothers Doudeville, got up that day like men of fashion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“What is it, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“Take six of our men, go to 29, Villa Dupont and make your way in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“The devil! </span><span id="kobo.317.2">How?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“In the name of the law. </span><span id="kobo.318.2">Are you not detective-inspectors? </span><span id="kobo.318.3">A search.</span><span id="kobo.318.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“But we haven’t the right.</span><span id="kobo.319.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“Take it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“And the servants? </span><span id="kobo.321.2">If they resist?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“There are only four of them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">“If they call out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">“They won’t call out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“If Altenheim returns?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">“He won’t return before ten o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">I’ll see to it. </span><span id="kobo.326.3">That gives you two hours and a half, which is more than you require to explore the house from top to bottom. </span><span id="kobo.326.4">If you find old Steinweg, come and tell me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">Baron Altenheim came up. </span><span id="kobo.327.2">Sernine went to meet him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">“Let’s have some dinner, shall we? </span><span id="kobo.328.2">That little incident in the garden has made me feel hungry. </span><span id="kobo.328.3">By the way, my dear baron, I have a few bits of advice to give you.</span><span id="kobo.328.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">They sat down to table.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">After dinner, Sernine suggested a game of billiards. </span><span id="kobo.330.2">Altenheim accepted. </span><span id="kobo.330.3">When the game was over, they went to the baccarat-room. </span><span id="kobo.330.4">The croupier was just shouting:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">“There are fifty louis in the bank. </span><span id="kobo.331.2">Any bids?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“A hundred louis,” said Altenheim.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">Sernine looked at his watch. </span><span id="kobo.333.2">Ten o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.333.3">The Doudevilles had not returned. </span><span id="kobo.333.4">The search, therefore, had been fruitless.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“Banco,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">Altenheim sat down and dealt the cards:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“I give.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">“Seven.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“Six. </span><span id="kobo.339.2">I lose,” said Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.339.3">“Shall I double the stakes?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“Very well,” said the baron.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">He dealt out the cards.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“Eight,” said Sernine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">“Nine,” said the baron, laying his cards down.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">Sernine turned on his heels, muttering:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“That costs me three hundred louis, but I don’t mind; it fixes him here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">Ten minutes later his motor set him down in front of 29, Villa Dupont; and he found the Doudevilles and their men collected in the hall:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">“Have you hunted out the old boy?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">“Dash it! </span><span id="kobo.349.2">But he must be somewhere or other. </span><span id="kobo.349.3">Where are the four servants?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“Over there, in the pantry, tied up, with the cook as well.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">“Good. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">I would as soon they did not see me. </span><span id="kobo.351.3">Go all you others. </span><span id="kobo.351.4">Jean, stay outside and keep watch: </span><span id="kobo.351.5">Jacques, show me over the house.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">He quickly ran through the cellar, the ground floor, the first and second floors and the attic. </span><span id="kobo.352.2">He practically stopped nowhere, knowing that he would not discover in a few minutes what his men had not been able to discover in three hours. </span><span id="kobo.352.3">But he carefully noted the shape and the arrangement of the rooms, and looked for some little detail which would put him on the scent.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">When he had finished, he returned to a bedroom which Doudeville had told him was Altenheim’s, and examined it attentively:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“This will do,” he said, raising a curtain that concealed a dark closet, full of clothes. </span><span id="kobo.354.2">“From here I can see the whole of the room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.355.1">“But if the baron searches the house?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">“Why should he?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">“He will know that we have been here, through his servants.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“Yes, but he will never dream that one of us is putting up here for the night. </span><span id="kobo.358.2">He will think that the attempt failed, that is all, so I shall stay.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“And how will you get out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“Oh, that’s asking me more than I can tell you! </span><span id="kobo.360.2">The great thing was to get in. </span><span id="kobo.360.3">Here I am, and here I stay. </span><span id="kobo.360.4">Go, Doudeville, and shut the doors as you go.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">He sat down on a little box at the back of the cupboard. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Four rows of hanging clothes protected him. </span><span id="kobo.361.3">Except in the case of a close investigation, he was evidently quite safe.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">Two hours passed. </span><span id="kobo.362.2">He heard the dull sound of a horse’s hoofs and the tinkling of a collar-bell. </span><span id="kobo.362.3">A carriage stopped, the front door slammed and almost immediately he heard voices, exclamations, a regular outcry that increased, probably, as each of the prisoners was released from his gag.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“They are explaining the thing to him,” he thought. </span><span id="kobo.363.2">“The baron must be in a tearing rage. </span><span id="kobo.363.3">He now understands the reason for my conduct at the club tonight and sees that I have dished him nicely.</span><span id="kobo.363.4">﻿ ﻿… Dished? </span><span id="kobo.363.5">That depends.</span><span id="kobo.363.6">﻿ ﻿… After all, I haven’t got Steinweg yet.</span><span id="kobo.363.7">﻿ ﻿… That is the first thing that he will want to know: </span><span id="kobo.363.8">did they get Steinweg? </span><span id="kobo.363.9">To find this out, he will go straight to the hiding-place. </span><span id="kobo.363.10">If he goes up, it means that the hiding-place is upstairs. </span><span id="kobo.363.11">If he goes down, then it is in the basement.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.364.1">He listened. </span><span id="kobo.364.2">The sound of voices continued in the rooms on the ground floor, but it did not seem as if anyone were moving. </span><span id="kobo.364.3">Altenheim must be cross-examining his confederates. </span><span id="kobo.364.4">It was half an hour before Sernine heard steps mounting the staircase.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">“Then it must be upstairs,” he said to himself. </span><span id="kobo.365.2">“But why did they wait so long?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“Go to bed, all of you,” said Altenheim’s voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">The baron entered his room with one of his men and shut the door:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">“And I am going to bed, too, Dominique. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">We should be no further if we sat arguing all night.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">“My opinion is,” said the other, “that he came to fetch Steinweg.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">“That is my opinion, too; and that’s why I’m really enjoying myself, seeing that Steinweg isn’t here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“But where is he, after all? </span><span id="kobo.371.2">What have you done with him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“That’s my secret; and you know I keep my secrets to myself. </span><span id="kobo.372.2">All that I can tell you is that he is in safe keeping, and that he won’t get out before he has spoken.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“So the prince is sold?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“Sold is the word. </span><span id="kobo.374.2">And he has had to fork out to attain this fine result! </span><span id="kobo.374.3">Oh, I’ve had a good time tonight!</span><span id="kobo.374.4">﻿ ﻿… Poor prince!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“For all that,” said the other, “we shall have to get rid of him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">“Make your mind easy, old man; that won’t take long. </span><span id="kobo.376.2">Before a week’s out you shall have a present of a pocketbook made out of Lupin-skin. </span><span id="kobo.376.3">But let me go to bed now. </span><span id="kobo.376.4">I’m dropping with sleep.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">There was a sound of the door closing. </span><span id="kobo.377.2">Then Sernine heard the baron push the bolt, empty his pockets, wind up his watch and undress. </span><span id="kobo.377.3">He seemed in a gay mood, whistling and singing, and even talking aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“Yes, a Lupin-skin pocketbook﻿ ﻿… in less than a week﻿ ﻿… in less than four days!</span><span id="kobo.378.2">﻿ ﻿… Otherwise he’ll eat us up, the bully!</span><span id="kobo.378.3">﻿ ﻿… No matter, he missed his shot tonight.</span><span id="kobo.378.4">﻿ ﻿… His calculation was right enough, though﻿ ﻿… Steinweg was bound to be here.</span><span id="kobo.378.5">﻿ ﻿… Only, there you are!</span><span id="kobo.378.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">He got into bed and at once switched off the light.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">Sernine had come forward as far as the dividing curtain, which he now lifted slightly, and he saw the vague light of the night filtering through the windows, leaving the bed in profound darkness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">He hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">Should he leap out upon the baron, take him by the throat and obtain from him by force and threats what he had not been able to obtain by craft? </span><span id="kobo.381.3">Absurd? </span><span id="kobo.381.4">Altenheim would never allow himself to be intimidated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“I say, he’s snoring now,” muttered Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">“Well, I’m off. </span><span id="kobo.382.3">At the worst, I shall have wasted a night.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">He did not go. </span><span id="kobo.383.2">He felt that it would be impossible for him to go, that he must wait, that chance might yet serve his turn.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">With infinite precautions, he took four or five coats and greatcoats from their hooks, laid them on the floor, made himself comfortable and, with his back to the wall, went peacefully to sleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">The baron was not an early riser. </span><span id="kobo.385.2">A clock outside was striking nine when he got out of bed and rang for his servant.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">He read the letters which his man brought him, splashed about in his tub, dressed without saying a word and sat down to his table to write, while Dominique was carefully hanging up the clothes of the previous day in the cupboard and Sernine asking himself, with his fists ready to strike:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">“I wonder if I shall have to stave in this fellow’s solar plexus?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">At ten o’clock the baron was ready:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“Leave me,” said he to the servant.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">“There’s just this waistcoat.</span><span id="kobo.390.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Leave me, I say. </span><span id="kobo.391.2">Come back when I ring﻿ ﻿… not before.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">He shut the door himself, like a man who does not trust others, went to a table on which a telephone was standing and took down the receiver:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">“Hullo!</span><span id="kobo.393.2">﻿ ﻿… Put me on to Garches, please, mademoiselle.</span><span id="kobo.393.3">﻿ ﻿… Very well, I’ll wait till you ring me up.</span><span id="kobo.393.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">He sat down to the instrument.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">The telephone-bell rang.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“Hullo!” </span><span id="kobo.396.2">said Altenheim. </span><span id="kobo.396.3">“Is that Garches?</span><span id="kobo.396.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, that’s right.</span><span id="kobo.396.5">﻿ ﻿… Give me number 38, please, mademoiselle.</span><span id="kobo.396.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">A few seconds later, in a lower voice, as low and as distinct as he could make it, he began:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“Are you 38?</span><span id="kobo.398.2">﻿ ﻿… It’s I speaking; no useless words.</span><span id="kobo.398.3">﻿ ﻿… Yesterday?</span><span id="kobo.398.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, you missed him in the garden.</span><span id="kobo.398.5">﻿ ﻿… Another time, of course; but the thing’s becoming urgent.</span><span id="kobo.398.6">﻿ ﻿… He had the house searched last night.</span><span id="kobo.398.7">﻿ ﻿… I’ll tell you about it.</span><span id="kobo.398.8">﻿ ﻿… Found nothing, of course.</span><span id="kobo.398.9">﻿ ﻿… What?</span><span id="kobo.398.10">﻿ ﻿… Hullo!</span><span id="kobo.398.11">﻿ ﻿… No, old Steinweg refuses to speak.</span><span id="kobo.398.12">﻿ ﻿… Threats, promises, nothing’s any good.</span><span id="kobo.398.13">﻿ ﻿… Hullo!</span><span id="kobo.398.14">﻿ ﻿… Yes, of course, he sees that we can do nothing.</span><span id="kobo.398.15">﻿ ﻿… We know just a part of the Kesselbach scheme and of the story of Pierre Leduc.</span><span id="kobo.398.16">﻿ ﻿… He’s the only one who has the answer to the riddle.</span><span id="kobo.398.17">﻿ ﻿… Oh, he’ll speak all right; that I’ll answer for﻿ ﻿… this very night, too﻿ ﻿… If not﻿ ﻿… What?</span><span id="kobo.398.18">﻿ ﻿… Well, what can we do? </span><span id="kobo.398.19">Anything rather than let him escape! </span><span id="kobo.398.20">Do you want the prince to bag him from us? </span><span id="kobo.398.21">As for the prince, we shall have to cook his goose in three days from now.</span><span id="kobo.398.22">﻿ ﻿… You have an idea?</span><span id="kobo.398.23">﻿ ﻿… Yes, that’s a good idea.</span><span id="kobo.398.24">﻿ ﻿… Oh, oh, excellent! </span><span id="kobo.398.25">I’ll see to it.</span><span id="kobo.398.26">﻿ ﻿… When shall we meet? </span><span id="kobo.398.27">Will Tuesday do? </span><span id="kobo.398.28">Right you are. </span><span id="kobo.398.29">I’ll come on Tuesday﻿ ﻿… at two o’clock.</span><span id="kobo.398.30">﻿ ﻿… Goodbye.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">He replaced the receiver and went out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">A few hours later, while the servants were at lunch, Prince Sernine strolled quietly out of the Villa Dupont, feeling rather faint in the head and weak in the knees, and, while making for the nearest restaurant, he thus summed up the situation:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“So, on Tuesday next, Altenheim and the Palace Hotel murderer have an appointment at Garches, in a house with the telephone number 38. </span><span id="kobo.401.2">On Tuesday, therefore, I shall hand over the two criminals to the police and set </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.401.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.402.1"> Lenormand at liberty. </span><span id="kobo.402.2">In the evening, it will be old Steinweg’s turn; and I shall learn, at last, whether Pierre Leduc is the son of a pork-butcher or not and whether he will make a suitable husband for Geneviève. </span><span id="kobo.402.3">So be it!”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.405.1">At eleven o’clock on Tuesday morning Valenglay, the prime minister, sent for the prefect of police and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.405.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.406.1"> Weber, the deputy-chief of the detective-service, and showed them an express letter which he had just received:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:recipient"><span id="kobo.408.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.408.2">Monsieur le Président du Conseil</span><span id="kobo.409.1">,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“Knowing the interest which you take in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.411.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.412.1"> Lenormand, I am writing to inform you of certain facts which chance has revealed to me.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.414.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.414.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.415.1"> Lenormand is locked up in the cellars of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.416.1">Villa des Glycines</span><span id="kobo.417.1"> at Garches, near the House of Retreat.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">“The ruffians of the Palace Hotel have resolved to murder him at two o’clock today.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">“If the police require my assistance, they will find me at half-past one in the garden of the House of Retreat, or at the garden-house occupied by </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.420.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.421.1"> Kesselbach, whose friend I have the honor to be.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<div epub:type="z3998:valediction" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.423.1">“I am, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.423.2">Monsieur le Président du Conseil</span><span id="kobo.424.1">,</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">“Your obedient servant,</span></p>
					</div>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature1" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.428.1">“Prince Sernine.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">“This is an exceedingly grave matter, my dear </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.431.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.432.1"> Weber,” said Valenglay. </span><span id="kobo.432.2">“I may add that we can have every confidence in the accuracy of Prince Sernine’s statements. </span><span id="kobo.432.3">I have often met him at dinner. </span><span id="kobo.432.4">He is a serious, intelligent man.</span><span id="kobo.432.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">“Will you allow me, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.434.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.435.1">,” asked the deputy-chief detective, “to show you another letter which I also received this morning?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">“About the same case?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">“Let me see it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.440.1">He took the letter and read:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:recipient"><span id="kobo.441.1">“Sir,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">“This is to inform you that Prince Paul Sernine, who calls himself </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.442.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.443.1"> Kesselbach’s friend, is really Arsène Lupin.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">“One proof will be sufficient: </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.445.2">Paul Sernine</span></em><span id="kobo.446.1"> is the anagram of </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.447.1">Arsène Lupin</span></em><span id="kobo.448.1">. </span><span id="kobo.448.2">Not a letter more, not a letter less.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.450.1">“</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.450.2">L. </span><span id="kobo.450.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.451.1">”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.455.1">And </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.455.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.456.1"> Weber added, while Valenglay stood amazed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.458.1">“This time, our friend Lupin has found an adversary who is a match for him. </span><span id="kobo.458.2">While he denounces the other, the other betrays him to us. </span><span id="kobo.458.3">And the fox is caught in the trap.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">“What do you propose to do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.460.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.460.2">Monsieur le Président</span><span id="kobo.461.1">, I shall take two hundred men with me!”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>