<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XV: The Map of Europe</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-15" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XV</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Map of Europe</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">Pierre Leduc loved Dolores!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">Lupin felt a keen, penetrating pain in the depths of his being, as though he had been wounded in the very source of life; a pain so great that, for the first time, he had a clear perception of what Dolores had gradually, unknown to himself, become to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">Pierre Leduc loved Dolores! </span><span id="kobo.6.2">And he was looking at her as a man looks at the woman he loves.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">Lupin felt a murderous instinct rise up within him, blindly and furiously. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">That look, that look of love cast upon Dolores, maddened him. </span><span id="kobo.7.3">He received an impression of the great silence that enveloped Dolores and Pierre Leduc; and in silence, in the stillness of their attitude there was nothing living but that look of love, that dumb and sensuous hymn in which the eyes told all the passion, all the desire, all the transport, all the yearning that one being can feel for another.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">And he saw </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.8.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.9.1"> Kesselbach also. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">Dolores’ eyes were invisible under their lowered lids, the silky eyelids with the long black lashes. </span><span id="kobo.9.3">But how she seemed to feel that look of love which sought for hers! </span><span id="kobo.9.4">How she quivered under that impalpable caress!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“She loves him﻿ ﻿… she loves him,” thought Lupin, burning with jealousy.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">And, when Pierre made a movement:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">“Oh, the villain! </span><span id="kobo.13.2">If he dares to touch her, I will kill him!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">Then, realizing the disorder of his reason and striving to combat it, he said to himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">“What a fool I am! </span><span id="kobo.15.2">What, you, Lupin, letting yourself go like this!</span><span id="kobo.15.3">﻿ ﻿… Look here, it’s only natural that she should love him.</span><span id="kobo.15.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, of course, you expected her to show a certain emotion at your arrival﻿ ﻿… a certain agitation.</span><span id="kobo.15.5">﻿ ﻿… You silly idiot, you’re only a thief, a robber﻿ ﻿… whereas he is a prince and young.</span><span id="kobo.15.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">Pierre had not stirred further. </span><span id="kobo.16.2">But his lips moved and it seemed as though Dolores were waking. </span><span id="kobo.16.3">Softly, slowly, she raised her lids, turned her head a little and her eyes met the young man’s eyes with the look that offers itself and surrenders itself and is more intense than the most intense of kisses.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">What followed came suddenly and unexpectedly, like a thunderclap. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">In three bounds, Lupin rushed into the drawing-room, sprang upon the young man, flung him to the ground and, with one hand on his rival’s chest, beside himself with anger, turning to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.17.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.18.1"> Kesselbach, he cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“But don’t you know? </span><span id="kobo.20.2">Hasn’t he told you, the cheat?</span><span id="kobo.20.3">﻿ ﻿… And you love him, you love that! </span><span id="kobo.20.4">Does he look like a grand-duke? </span><span id="kobo.20.5">Oh, what a joke!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">He grinned and chuckled like a madman, while Dolores gazed at him in stupefaction:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“He, a grand-duke! </span><span id="kobo.22.2">Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.22.3">IV</span><span id="kobo.23.1">, Grand-duke of Zweibrucken-Veldenz! </span><span id="kobo.23.2">A reigning sovereign! </span><span id="kobo.23.3">Elector of Treves! </span><span id="kobo.23.4">But it’s enough to make one die of laughing! </span><span id="kobo.23.5">He! </span><span id="kobo.23.6">Why, his name is Baupré, Gérard Baupré, the lowest of ragamuffins﻿ ﻿… a beggar, whom I picked up in the gutter!</span><span id="kobo.23.7">﻿ ﻿… A grand-duke? </span><span id="kobo.23.8">But it’s I who made him a grand-duke! </span><span id="kobo.23.9">Ha, ha, ha, what a joke!</span><span id="kobo.23.10">﻿ ﻿… If you had seen him cut his little finger﻿ ﻿… he fainted three times﻿ ﻿… the milksop!</span><span id="kobo.23.11">﻿ ﻿… Ah, you allow yourself to lift your eyes to ladies﻿ ﻿… and to rebel against the master!</span><span id="kobo.23.12">﻿ ﻿… Wait a bit, Grand-duke of Zweibrucken-Veldenz, I’ll show you!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">He took him in his arms, like a bundle, swung him to and fro for a moment and pitched him through the open window:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“Mind the rose trees, grand-duke! </span><span id="kobo.26.2">There are thorns!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">When he turned round, Dolores was close to him and looking at him with eyes which he had never seen in her before, the eyes of a woman who hates and who is incensed with rage. </span><span id="kobo.27.2">Could this possibly be Dolores, the weak, ailing Dolores?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">She stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">“What are you doing?</span><span id="kobo.29.2">﻿ ﻿… How dare you?</span><span id="kobo.29.3">﻿ ﻿… And he.</span><span id="kobo.29.4">﻿ ﻿… Then it’s true?</span><span id="kobo.29.5">﻿ ﻿… lied to me?</span><span id="kobo.29.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">“Lied to you?” </span><span id="kobo.30.2">cried Lupin, grasping the humiliation which she had suffered as a woman. </span><span id="kobo.30.3">“Lied to you? </span><span id="kobo.30.4">He, a grand-duke! </span><span id="kobo.30.5">A puppet, that’s all, a puppet of which I pulled the string﻿ ﻿… an instrument which I tuned, to play upon as I chose! </span><span id="kobo.30.6">Oh, the fool, the fool!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">Overcome with renewed rage, he stamped his foot and shook his fist at the open window. </span><span id="kobo.31.2">And he began to walk up and down the room, flinging out phrases in which all the pent-up violence of his secret thought burst forth:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">“The fool! </span><span id="kobo.32.2">Then he didn’t see what I expected of him? </span><span id="kobo.32.3">He did not suspect the greatness of the part he was to play? </span><span id="kobo.32.4">Oh, I shall have to drive it into his noddle by force, I see! </span><span id="kobo.32.5">Lift up your head, you idiot! </span><span id="kobo.32.6">You shall be grand-duke by the grace of Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.32.7">And a reigning sovereign! </span><span id="kobo.32.8">With a civil list! </span><span id="kobo.32.9">And subjects to fleece! </span><span id="kobo.32.10">And a palace which Charlemagne shall rebuild for you! </span><span id="kobo.32.11">And a master that shall be I, Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.32.12">Do you understand, you numskull? </span><span id="kobo.32.13">Lift up your head, dash it! </span><span id="kobo.32.14">Higher than that! </span><span id="kobo.32.15">Look up at the sky, remember that a Zweibrucken was hanged for cattle-lifting before the Hohenzollerns were ever heard of. </span><span id="kobo.32.16">And you are a Zweibrucken, by Jove, no less; and I am here, I, I, Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.32.17">And you shall be grand-duke, I tell you! </span><span id="kobo.32.18">A pasteboard grand-duke? </span><span id="kobo.32.19">Very well! </span><span id="kobo.32.20">But a grand-duke all the same, quickened with my breath and glowing with my ardor. </span><span id="kobo.32.21">A puppet? </span><span id="kobo.32.22">Very well. </span><span id="kobo.32.23">But a puppet that shall speak </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.32.24">my</span></em><span id="kobo.33.1"> words and make </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.34.1">my</span></em><span id="kobo.35.1"> movements and perform </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.36.1">my</span></em><span id="kobo.37.1"> wishes and realize </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.38.1">my</span></em><span id="kobo.39.1"> dreams﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿… my dreams.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">He stood motionless, as though dazzled by the glory of his conception. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">Then he went up to Dolores and, sinking his voice, with a sort of mystic exaltation, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“On my left, Alsace-Lorraine.</span><span id="kobo.42.2">﻿ ﻿… On my right, Baden, Wurtemburg, Bavaria.</span><span id="kobo.42.3">﻿ ﻿… South Germany﻿ ﻿… all those disconnected, discontented states, crushed under the heel of the Prussian Charlemagne, but restless and ready to throw off the yoke at any moment.</span><span id="kobo.42.4">﻿ ﻿… Do you understand all that a man like myself can do in the midst of that, all the aspirations that he can kindle, all the hatred that he can produce, all the angry rebellion that he can inspire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">In a still lower voice, he repeated:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“And, on my left, Alsace-Lorraine!</span><span id="kobo.44.2">﻿ ﻿… Do you fully understand?</span><span id="kobo.44.3">﻿ ﻿… Dreams? </span><span id="kobo.44.4">Not at all! </span><span id="kobo.44.5">It is the reality of the day after tomorrow, of tomorrow!</span><span id="kobo.44.6">﻿ ﻿… Yes.</span><span id="kobo.44.7">﻿ ﻿… I wish it.</span><span id="kobo.44.8">﻿ ﻿… I wish it.</span><span id="kobo.44.9">﻿ ﻿… Oh, all that I wish and all that I mean to do is unprecedented!</span><span id="kobo.44.10">﻿ ﻿… Only think, at two steps from the Alsatian frontier! </span><span id="kobo.44.11">In the heart of German territory! </span><span id="kobo.44.12">Close to the old Rhine!</span><span id="kobo.44.13">﻿ ﻿… A little intrigue, a little genius will be enough to change the surface of the earth. </span><span id="kobo.44.14">Genius I have﻿ ﻿… and to spare.</span><span id="kobo.44.15">﻿ ﻿… And I shall be the master! </span><span id="kobo.44.16">I shall be the man who directs. </span><span id="kobo.44.17">The other, the puppet can have the title and the honors.</span><span id="kobo.44.18">﻿ ﻿… I shall have the power!</span><span id="kobo.44.19">﻿ ﻿… I shall remain in the background. </span><span id="kobo.44.20">No office: </span><span id="kobo.44.21">I will not be a minister, nor even a chamberlain. </span><span id="kobo.44.22">Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.44.23">I shall be one of the servants in the palace, the gardener perhaps.</span><span id="kobo.44.24">﻿ ﻿… Yes, the gardener.</span><span id="kobo.44.25">﻿ ﻿… Oh, what a tremendous life! </span><span id="kobo.44.26">To grow flowers and alter the map of Europe!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">She looked at him greedily, dominated, swayed by the strength of that man. </span><span id="kobo.45.2">And her eyes expressed an admiration which she did not seek to conceal.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">He put his hands on Dolores’ shoulders and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“That is my dream. </span><span id="kobo.47.2">Great as it is, it will be surpassed by the facts: </span><span id="kobo.47.3">that I swear to you. </span><span id="kobo.47.4">The Kaiser has already seen what I am good for. </span><span id="kobo.47.5">One day, he will find me installed in front of him, face to face. </span><span id="kobo.47.6">I hold all the trumps. </span><span id="kobo.47.7">Valenglay will act at my bidding.</span><span id="kobo.47.8">﻿ ﻿… England also.</span><span id="kobo.47.9">﻿ ﻿… The game is played and won.</span><span id="kobo.47.10">﻿ ﻿… That is my dream.</span><span id="kobo.47.11">﻿ ﻿… There is another one.</span><span id="kobo.47.12">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">He stopped suddenly. </span><span id="kobo.48.2">Dolores did not take her eyes from him; and an infinite emotion changed every feature of her face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">A vast joy penetrated him as he once more felt, and clearly felt, that woman’s confusion in his presence. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">He no longer had the sense of being to her﻿ ﻿… what he was, a thief, a robber; he was a man, a man who loved and whose love roused unspoken feelings in the depths of a friendly soul.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">Then he said no more, but he lavished upon her, unuttered, every known word of love and admiration; and he thought of the life which he might lead somewhere, not far from Veldenz, unknown and all-powerful.</span><span id="kobo.50.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">A long silence united them. </span><span id="kobo.51.2">Then she rose and said, softly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“Go away, I entreat you to go.</span><span id="kobo.52.2">﻿ ﻿… Pierre shall marry Geneviève, I promise you that, but it is better that you should go﻿ ﻿… that you should not be here.</span><span id="kobo.52.3">﻿ ﻿… Go. </span><span id="kobo.52.4">Pierre shall marry Geneviève.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">He waited for a moment. </span><span id="kobo.53.2">Perhaps he would rather have had more definite words, but he dared not ask for anything. </span><span id="kobo.53.3">And he withdrew, dazed, intoxicated and happy to obey, to subject his destiny to hers!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">On his way to the door, he came upon a low chair, which he had to move. </span><span id="kobo.54.2">But his foot knocked against something. </span><span id="kobo.54.3">He looked down. </span><span id="kobo.54.4">It was a little pocket-mirror, in ebony, with a gold monogram.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">Suddenly, he started and snatched up the mirror. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">The monogram consisted of two letters interlaced, an “L” and an “M.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">An “L” and an “M!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“Louis de Malreich,” he said to himself, with a shudder.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">He turned to Dolores:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Where does this mirror come from? </span><span id="kobo.59.2">Whose is it? </span><span id="kobo.59.3">It is important that I should﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">She took it from him and looked at it:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“I don’t know.</span><span id="kobo.61.2">﻿ ﻿… I never saw it before﻿ ﻿… a servant, perhaps.</span><span id="kobo.61.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“A servant, no doubt,” he said, “but it is very odd﻿ ﻿… it is one of those coincidences.</span><span id="kobo.62.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">At that moment, Geneviève entered by the other door, and without seeing Lupin, who was hidden by a screen, at once exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“Why, there’s your glass, Dolores!</span><span id="kobo.64.2">﻿ ﻿… So you have found it, after making me hunt for it all this time!</span><span id="kobo.64.3">﻿ ﻿… Where was it?” </span><span id="kobo.64.4">And the girl went away saying, “Oh, well, I’m very glad it’s found!</span><span id="kobo.64.5">﻿ ﻿… How upset you were!</span><span id="kobo.64.6">﻿ ﻿… I will go and tell them at once to stop looking for it.</span><span id="kobo.64.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">Lupin had not moved. </span><span id="kobo.65.2">He was confused, and tried in vain to understand. </span><span id="kobo.65.3">Why had Dolores not spoken the truth? </span><span id="kobo.65.4">Why had she not at once said whose the mirror was?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">An idea flashed across his mind; and he asked, more or less at random:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“Do you know Louis de Malreich?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“Yes,” she said, watching him, as though striving to guess the thoughts that beset him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">He rushed toward her, in a state of intense excitement:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“You know him? </span><span id="kobo.70.2">Who was he? </span><span id="kobo.70.3">Who is he? </span><span id="kobo.70.4">Who is he? </span><span id="kobo.70.5">And why did you not tell me? </span><span id="kobo.70.6">Where have you known him? </span><span id="kobo.70.7">Speak﻿ ﻿… answer.</span><span id="kobo.70.8">﻿ ﻿… I implore you.</span><span id="kobo.70.9">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“No,” she said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“But you must, you must.</span><span id="kobo.72.2">﻿ ﻿… Think! </span><span id="kobo.72.3">Louis de Malreich! </span><span id="kobo.72.4">The murderer! </span><span id="kobo.72.5">The monster!</span><span id="kobo.72.6">﻿ ﻿… Why did you not tell me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">She, in turn, placed her hands on Lupin’s shoulders and, in a firm voice, declared:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“Listen, you must never ask me, because I shall never tell.</span><span id="kobo.74.2">﻿ ﻿… It is a secret which I shall take with me to the grave.</span><span id="kobo.74.3">﻿ ﻿… Come what may, no one will ever know, no one in the wide world, I swear it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">He stood before her for some minutes, anxiously, with a confused brain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">He remembered Steinweg’s silence and the old man’s terror when Lupin asked him to reveal the terrible secret. </span><span id="kobo.76.2">Dolores also knew and she also refused to speak.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">He went out without a word.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.79.1">The open air, the sense of space, did him good. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">He passed out through the park-wall and wandered long over the country. </span><span id="kobo.79.3">And he soliloquized aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“What does it mean? </span><span id="kobo.80.2">What is happening? </span><span id="kobo.80.3">For months and months, fighting hard and acting, I have been pulling the strings of all the characters that are to help me in the execution of my plans; and, during this time, I have completely forgotten to stoop over them and see what is going on in their hearts and brains. </span><span id="kobo.80.4">I do not know Pierre Leduc, I do not know Geneviève, I do not know Dolores.</span><span id="kobo.80.5">﻿ ﻿… And I have treated them as so many jumping-jacks, whereas they are live persons. </span><span id="kobo.80.6">And today I am stumbling over obstacles.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">He stamped his foot and cried:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">“Over obstacles that do not exist! </span><span id="kobo.82.2">What do I care for the psychological state of Geneviève, of Pierre?</span><span id="kobo.82.3">﻿ ﻿… I will study that later, at Veldenz, when I have secured their happiness. </span><span id="kobo.82.4">But Dolores﻿ ﻿… she knew Malreich and said nothing!</span><span id="kobo.82.5">﻿ ﻿… Why? </span><span id="kobo.82.6">What relation united them? </span><span id="kobo.82.7">Was she afraid of him? </span><span id="kobo.82.8">Is she afraid that he will escape from prison and come to revenge himself for an indiscretion on her part?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">At night, he went to the chalet which he had allotted to his own use at the end of the park and dined in a very bad temper, storming at Octave, who waited on him and who was always either too slow or too fast:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">“I’m sick of it, leave me alone.</span><span id="kobo.84.2">﻿ ﻿… You’re doing everything wrong today.</span><span id="kobo.84.3">﻿ ﻿… And this coffee.</span><span id="kobo.84.4">﻿ ﻿… It’s not fit to drink.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">He pushed back his cup half-full and, for two hours, walked about the park, sifting the same ideas over and over again. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">At last, one suggestion took definite shape within his mind:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">“Malreich has escaped from prison. </span><span id="kobo.86.2">He is terrifying </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.86.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.87.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">By this time, he already knows the story of the mirror from her.</span><span id="kobo.87.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">Lupin shrugged his shoulders:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">“And tonight he’s coming to pull my leg, I suppose! </span><span id="kobo.90.2">I’m talking nonsense. </span><span id="kobo.90.3">The best thing I can do is to go to bed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">He went to his room, undressed and got into bed. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">He fell asleep at once, with a heavy sleep disturbed by nightmares. </span><span id="kobo.91.3">Twice he woke and tried to light his candle and twice fell back, as though stunned by a blow.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">Nevertheless, he heard the hours strike on the village clock, or rather he thought that he heard them strike, for he was plunged in a sort of torpor in which he seemed to retain all his wits.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">And he was haunted by dreams, dreams of anguish and terror. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">He plainly heard the sound of his window opening. </span><span id="kobo.93.3">He plainly, through his closed eyelids, through the thick darkness, </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.93.4">saw</span></em><span id="kobo.94.1"> a form come toward the bed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">And the form bent over him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">He made the incredible effort needed to raise his eyelids and look﻿ ﻿… or, at least, he imagined that he did. </span><span id="kobo.97.2">Was he dreaming? </span><span id="kobo.97.3">Was he awake? </span><span id="kobo.97.4">He asked himself the question in despair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">A further sound.</span><span id="kobo.98.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">He took up the box of matches by his bedside:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“Let’s have a light on it,” he said, with a great sense of elation.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">He struck a match and lit the candle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">Lupin felt the perspiration stream over his skin, from head to foot, while his heart ceased beating, stopped with terror. </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.102.2">The man was there.</span></em></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">Was it possible? </span><span id="kobo.104.2">No, no﻿ ﻿… and yet he </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.104.3">saw</span></em><span id="kobo.105.1">.</span><span id="kobo.105.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, the fearsome sight!</span><span id="kobo.105.3">﻿ ﻿… The man, the monster, was there.</span><span id="kobo.105.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“He shall not﻿ ﻿… he shall not,” stammered Lupin madly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">The man, the monster was there, dressed in black, with a mask on his face and with his felt hat pulled down over his fair hair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“Oh, I am dreaming.</span><span id="kobo.109.2">﻿ ﻿… I am dreaming!” </span><span id="kobo.109.3">said Lupin, laughing. </span><span id="kobo.109.4">“It’s a nightmare!</span><span id="kobo.109.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">Exerting all his strength and all his willpower, he tried to make a movement, one movement, to drive away the vision.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">He could not.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">And, suddenly, he remembered: </span><span id="kobo.112.2">the coffee! </span><span id="kobo.112.3">The taste of it﻿ ﻿… similar to the taste of the coffee which he had drunk at Veldenz!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">He gave a cry, made a last effort and fell back exhausted. </span><span id="kobo.113.2">But, in his delirium, he felt that the man was unfastening the top button of his pajama-jacket and baring his neck, felt that the man was raising his arm, saw that the hand was clutching the handle of a dagger, a little steel dagger similar to that which had struck Kesselbach, Chapman, Altenheim and so many others.</span><span id="kobo.113.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.115.1">A few hours later, Lupin woke up, shattered with fatigue, with a scorched palate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">He lay for several minutes collecting his thoughts and, suddenly, remembering, made an instinctive defensive movement, as though he were being attacked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“Fool that I am!” </span><span id="kobo.117.2">he cried, jumping out of bed. </span><span id="kobo.117.3">“It was a nightmare, an hallucination. </span><span id="kobo.117.4">It only needs a little reflection. </span><span id="kobo.117.5">Had it been ‘he,’ had it really been a man, in flesh and blood, who lifted his hand against me last night, he would have cut my throat like a rabbit’s. </span><span id="kobo.117.6">‘He’ doesn’t hesitate. </span><span id="kobo.117.7">Let’s be logical. </span><span id="kobo.117.8">Why should he spare me? </span><span id="kobo.117.9">For the sake of my good looks? </span><span id="kobo.117.10">No, I have been dreaming, that’s all.</span><span id="kobo.117.11">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">He began to whistle and dressed himself, assuming the greatest calmness, but his brain never ceased working and his eyes sought about.</span><span id="kobo.118.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">On the floor, on the window-ledge, not a trace. </span><span id="kobo.119.2">As his room was on the ground-floor and as he slept with his window open, it was evident that his assailant would have entered that way.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">Well, he discovered nothing; and nothing either at the foot of the wall outside, or on the gravel of the path that ran round the chalet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“Still﻿ ﻿… still﻿ ﻿…” he repeated, between his teeth.</span><span id="kobo.121.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">He called Octave:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Where did you make the coffee which you gave me last night?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“At the castle, governor, like the rest of the things. </span><span id="kobo.124.2">There is no range here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“Did you drink any of it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“Did you throw away what was left in the coffeepot?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">“Why, yes, governor. </span><span id="kobo.128.2">You said it was so bad. </span><span id="kobo.128.3">You only took a few mouthfuls.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">Get the motor ready. </span><span id="kobo.129.3">We’re leaving.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">Lupin was not the man to remain in doubt. </span><span id="kobo.130.2">He wanted to have a decisive explanation with Dolores. </span><span id="kobo.130.3">But, for this, he must first clear up certain points that seemed to him obscure and see Jean Doudeville who had sent him some rather curious information from Veldenz.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">He drove, without stopping, to the grand-duchy, which he reached at two o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">He had an interview with Count de Waldemar, whom he asked, upon some pretext, to delay the journey of the delegates of the Regency to Bruggen. </span><span id="kobo.131.3">Then he went in search of Doudeville, in a tavern at Veldenz.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">Doudeville took him to another tavern, where he introduced him to a shabbily-dressed little gentleman, Herr Stockli, a clerk in the department of births, deaths and marriages. </span><span id="kobo.132.2">They had a long conversation. </span><span id="kobo.132.3">They went out together and all three passed stealthily through the offices of the town-hall. </span><span id="kobo.132.4">At seven o’clock, Lupin dined and set out again. </span><span id="kobo.132.5">At ten o’clock he arrived at Bruggen Castle and asked for Geneviève, so that she might take him to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.132.6">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.133.1"> Kesselbach’s room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">He was told that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.135.2">Mlle.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.136.1"> Ernemont had been summoned back to Paris by a telegram from her grandmother.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“Ah!” </span><span id="kobo.138.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.138.3">“Could I see </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.138.4">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.139.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.141.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.142.1"> Kesselbach went straight to bed after dinner. </span><span id="kobo.142.2">She is sure to be asleep.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“No, I saw a light in her boudoir. </span><span id="kobo.144.2">She will see me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">He did not even wait for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.145.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.146.1"> Kesselbach to send out an answer. </span><span id="kobo.146.2">He walked into the boudoir almost upon the maid’s heels, dismissed her and said to Dolores:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“I have to speak to you, madame, on an urgent matter.</span><span id="kobo.148.2">﻿ ﻿… Forgive me﻿ ﻿… I confess that my behavior must seem importunate.</span><span id="kobo.148.3">﻿ ﻿… But you will understand, I am sure.</span><span id="kobo.148.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">He was greatly excited and did not seem much disposed to put off the explanation, especially as, before entering the room, he thought he heard a sound.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">Yet Dolores was alone and lying down. </span><span id="kobo.150.2">And she said, in her tired voice:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“Perhaps we might﻿ ﻿… tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.151.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">He did not answer, suddenly struck by a smell that surprised him in that boudoir, a smell of tobacco. </span><span id="kobo.152.2">And, at once, he had the intuition, the certainty, that there was a man there, at the moment when he himself arrived, and that perhaps the man was there still, hidden somewhere.</span><span id="kobo.152.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">Pierre Leduc? </span><span id="kobo.153.2">No, Pierre Leduc did not smoke. </span><span id="kobo.153.3">Then who?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">Dolores murmured:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Be quick, please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.156.1">“Yes, yes, but first﻿ ﻿… would it be possible for you to tell me﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.157.1">He interrupted himself. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">What was the use of asking her? </span><span id="kobo.157.3">If there were really a man in hiding, would she be likely to tell?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">Then he made up his mind and, trying to overcome the sort of timid constraint that oppressed him at the sense of a strange presence, he said, in a very low voice, so that Dolores alone should hear:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“Listen, I have learnt something﻿ ﻿… which I do not understand﻿ ﻿… and which perplexes me greatly. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">You will answer me, will you not, Dolores?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">He spoke her name with great gentleness and as though he were trying to master her by the note of love and affection in his voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“What have you learnt?” </span><span id="kobo.161.2">she asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“The register of births at Veldenz contains three names which are those of the last descendants of the family of Malreich, which settled in Germany.</span><span id="kobo.162.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“Yes, you have told me all that.</span><span id="kobo.163.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“You remember, the first name is Raoul de Malreich, better known under his alias of Altenheim, the scoundrel, the swell hooligan, now dead﻿ ﻿… murdered.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">“Next comes Louis de Malreich, the monster, this one, the terrible murderer who will be beheaded in a few days from now.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Then, lastly, Isilda, the mad daughter.</span><span id="kobo.168.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">“So all that is quite positive, is it not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Well,” said Lupin, leaning over her more closely than before, “I have just made an investigation which showed to me that the second of the three Christian names, or rather a part of the line on which it is written, has at some time or other, been subjected to erasure. </span><span id="kobo.172.2">The line is written over, in a new hand, with much fresher ink; but the writing below is not quite effaced, so that.</span><span id="kobo.172.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“So that﻿ ﻿… ?” </span><span id="kobo.173.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.173.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.174.1"> Kesselbach, in a low voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“So that, with a good lens and particularly with the special methods which I have at my disposal, I was able to revive some of the obliterated syllables and, without any possibility of a mistake, in all certainty, to reconstruct the old writing. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">I then found not Louis de Malreich, but﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Oh, don’t, don’t!</span><span id="kobo.177.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">Suddenly shattered by the strain of her prolonged effort of resistance, she lay bent in two and, with her head in her hands, her shoulders shaken with convulsive sobs, she wept.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">Lupin looked for long seconds at this weak and listless creature, so pitifully helpless. </span><span id="kobo.179.2">And he would have liked to stop, to cease the torturing questions which he was inflicting upon her. </span><span id="kobo.179.3">But was it not to save her that he was acting as he did? </span><span id="kobo.179.4">And, to save her, was it not necessary that he should know the truth, however painful?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">He resumed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“Why that forgery?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“It was my husband,” she stammered, “it was my husband who did it. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">With his fortune, he could do everything; and he bribed a junior clerk to have the Christian name of the second child altered for him on the register.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“The Christian name and the sex,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“Yes,” she said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“Then,” he continued, “I am not mistaken: </span><span id="kobo.185.2">the original Christian name, the real one, was Dolores?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“But why did your husband﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">She whispered in a shamefaced manner, while the tears streamed down her cheeks.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“Don’t you understand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“But think,” she said, shuddering, “I was the sister of Isilda, the mad woman, the sister of Altenheim, the ruffian. </span><span id="kobo.191.2">My husband﻿—or rather my affianced husband﻿—would not have me remain that. </span><span id="kobo.191.3">He loved me. </span><span id="kobo.191.4">I loved him too, and I consented. </span><span id="kobo.191.5">He suppressed Dolores de Malreich on the register, he bought me other papers, another personality, another birth-certificate; and I was married in Holland under another maiden name, as Dolores Amonti.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">Lupin reflected for a moment and said, thoughtfully:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿… I understand.</span><span id="kobo.193.2">﻿ ﻿… But then Louis de Malreich does not exist; and the murderer of your husband, the murderer of your brother and sister, does not bear that name.</span><span id="kobo.193.3">﻿ ﻿… His name.</span><span id="kobo.193.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">She sprang to a sitting posture and, eagerly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“His name! </span><span id="kobo.195.2">Yes, that is his name﻿ ﻿… yes, it is his name nevertheless.</span><span id="kobo.195.3">﻿ ﻿… Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.195.4">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.195.5">L. </span><span id="kobo.195.6">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.196.1">﻿ ﻿… Remember.</span><span id="kobo.196.2">﻿ ﻿… Oh, do not try to find out﻿ ﻿… it is the terrible secret.</span><span id="kobo.196.3">﻿ ﻿… Besides, what does it matter?</span><span id="kobo.196.4">﻿ ﻿… They have the criminal.</span><span id="kobo.196.5">﻿ ﻿… He is the criminal.</span><span id="kobo.196.6">﻿ ﻿… I tell you he is. </span><span id="kobo.196.7">Did he defend himself when I accused him, face to face? </span><span id="kobo.196.8">Could he defend himself, under that name or any other? </span><span id="kobo.196.9">It is he﻿ ﻿… it is he﻿ ﻿… He committed the murders.</span><span id="kobo.196.10">﻿ ﻿… He struck the blows.</span><span id="kobo.196.11">﻿ ﻿… The dagger.</span><span id="kobo.196.12">﻿ ﻿… The steel dagger.</span><span id="kobo.196.13">﻿ ﻿… Oh, if I could only tell all I know!</span><span id="kobo.196.14">﻿ ﻿… Louis de Malreich.</span><span id="kobo.196.15">﻿ ﻿… If I could only﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">She fell back on the sofa in a fit of hysterical sobbing; and her hand clutched Lupin’s and he heard her stammering, amid inarticulate words:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“Protect me﻿ ﻿… protect me.</span><span id="kobo.199.2">﻿ ﻿… You alone, perhaps.</span><span id="kobo.199.3">﻿ ﻿… Oh, do not forsake me.</span><span id="kobo.199.4">﻿ ﻿… I am so unhappy!</span><span id="kobo.199.5">﻿ ﻿… Oh, what torture﻿ ﻿… what torture!</span><span id="kobo.199.6">﻿ ﻿… It is hell!</span><span id="kobo.199.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">With his free hand, he stroked her hair and forehead with infinite gentleness; and, under his caress, she gradually relaxed her tense nerves and became calmer and quieter.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">Then he looked at her again and long, long asked himself what there could be behind that fair, white brow, what secret was ravaging that mysterious soul. </span><span id="kobo.201.2">She also was afraid. </span><span id="kobo.201.3">But of whom? </span><span id="kobo.201.4">Against whom was she imploring him to protect her?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">Once again, he was obsessed by the image of the man in black, by that Louis de Malreich, the sinister and incomprehensible enemy, whose attacks he had to ward off without knowing whence they came or even if they were taking place.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">He was in prison, watched day and night. </span><span id="kobo.203.2">Tush! </span><span id="kobo.203.3">Did Lupin not know by his own experience that there are beings for whom prison does not exist and who throw off their chains at the given moment? </span><span id="kobo.203.4">And Louis de Malreich was one of those.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">Yes, there was someone in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.204.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.205.1"> prison, in the condemned man’s cell. </span><span id="kobo.205.2">But it might be an accomplice or some victim of Malreich﻿ ﻿… while Malreich himself prowled around Bruggen Castle, slipped in under cover of the darkness, like an invisible spectre, made his way into the chalet in the park and, at night, raised his dagger against Lupin asleep and helpless.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">And it was Louis de Malreich who terrorized Dolores, who drove her mad with his threats, who held her by some dreadful secret and forced her into silence and submission.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">And Lupin imagined the enemy’s plan: </span><span id="kobo.208.2">to throw Dolores, scared and trembling, into Pierre Leduc’s arms, to make away with him, Lupin, and to reign in his place, over there, with the grand-duke’s power and Dolores’s millions.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">It was a likely supposition, a certain supposition, which fitted in with the facts and provided a solution of all the problems.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Of all?” </span><span id="kobo.210.2">thought Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.210.3">“Yes.</span><span id="kobo.210.4">﻿ ﻿… But then, why did he not kill me, last night, in the chalet? </span><span id="kobo.210.5">He had but to wish﻿ ﻿… </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.210.6">and he did not wish</span></em><span id="kobo.211.1">. </span><span id="kobo.211.2">One movement and I was dead. </span><span id="kobo.211.3">He did not make that movement. </span><span id="kobo.211.4">Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">Dolores opened her eyes, saw him and smiled, with a pale smile:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“Leave me,” she said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">He rose, with some hesitation. </span><span id="kobo.215.2">Should he go and see if the enemy was behind the curtain or hidden behind the dresses in a cupboard?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">She repeated, gently:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">“Go﻿ ﻿… I am so sleepy.</span><span id="kobo.217.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">He went away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">But, outside, he stopped behind some trees that formed a dark cluster in front of the castle. </span><span id="kobo.219.2">He saw a light in Dolores’ boudoir. </span><span id="kobo.219.3">Then the light passed into the bedroom. </span><span id="kobo.219.4">In a few minutes, all was darkness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">He waited. </span><span id="kobo.220.2">If the enemy was there, perhaps he would come out of the castle.</span><span id="kobo.220.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">An hour elapsed.</span><span id="kobo.221.2">﻿ ﻿… Two hours.</span><span id="kobo.221.3">﻿ ﻿… Not a sound.</span><span id="kobo.221.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“There’s nothing to be done,” thought Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.222.2">“Either he is burrowing in some corner of the castle﻿ ﻿… or else he has gone out by a door which I cannot see from here. </span><span id="kobo.222.3">Unless the whole thing is the most ridiculous supposition on my part.</span><span id="kobo.222.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">He lit a cigarette and walked back to the chalet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">As he approached it, he saw, at some distance from him, a shadow that appeared to be moving away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">He did not stir, for fear of giving the alarm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">The shadow crossed a path. </span><span id="kobo.226.2">By the light of the moon, he seemed to recognize the black figure of Malreich.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">He rushed forward.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">The shadow fled and vanished from sight.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“Come,” he said, “it shall be for tomorrow. </span><span id="kobo.229.2">And, this time.</span><span id="kobo.229.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">Lupin went to Octave’s, his chauffeur’s, room, woke him and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Take the motor and go to Paris. </span><span id="kobo.231.2">You will be there by six o’clock in the morning. </span><span id="kobo.231.3">See Jacques Doudeville and tell him two things: </span><span id="kobo.231.4">first, to give me news of the man under sentence of death; and secondly, as soon as the post-offices open, to send me a telegram which I will write down for you now.</span><span id="kobo.231.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">He worded the telegram on a scrap of paper and added:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“The moment you have done that, come back, but this way, along the wall of the park. </span><span id="kobo.233.2">Go now. </span><span id="kobo.233.3">No one must suspect your absence.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">Lupin went to his own room, pressed the spring of his lantern and began to make a minute inspection. </span><span id="kobo.234.2">“It’s as I thought,” he said presently. </span><span id="kobo.234.3">“Someone came here tonight, while I was watching beneath the window. </span><span id="kobo.234.4">And, if he came, I know what he came for.</span><span id="kobo.234.5">﻿ ﻿… I was certainly right: </span><span id="kobo.234.6">things are getting warm.</span><span id="kobo.234.7">﻿ ﻿… The first time, I was spared. </span><span id="kobo.234.8">This time, I may be sure of my little stab.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">For prudence’s sake, he took a blanket, chose a lonely spot in the park and spent the night under the stars.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">Octave was back by ten o’clock in the morning:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“It’s all right, governor. </span><span id="kobo.237.2">The telegram has been sent.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.238.1">“Good. </span><span id="kobo.238.2">And is Louis de Malreich still in prison?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.239.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.239.2">Doudeville passed his cell at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.239.3">Santé</span><span id="kobo.240.1"> last night as the warder was coming out. </span><span id="kobo.240.2">They talked together. </span><span id="kobo.240.3">Malreich is just the same, it appears: </span><span id="kobo.240.4">silent as the grave. </span><span id="kobo.240.5">He is waiting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">“Waiting for what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“The fatal hour of course. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">They are saying, at headquarters, that the execution will take place on the day after tomorrow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“That’s all right, that’s all right,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.244.2">“And one thing is quite plain: </span><span id="kobo.244.3">he has not escaped.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">He ceased to understand or even to look for the explanation of the riddle, so clearly did he feel that the whole truth would soon be revealed to him. </span><span id="kobo.245.2">He had only to prepare his plan, for the enemy to fall into the trap.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Or for me to fall into it myself,” he thought, laughing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">He felt very gay, very free from care; and no fight had ever looked more promising to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">A footman came from the castle with the telegram which he had told Doudeville to send him and which the postman had just brought. </span><span id="kobo.248.2">He opened it and put it in his pocket.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.250.1">A little before twelve o’clock, he met Pierre Leduc in one of the avenues and said, offhand:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“I am looking for you﻿ ﻿… things are serious.</span><span id="kobo.251.2">﻿ ﻿… You must answer me frankly. </span><span id="kobo.251.3">Since you have been at the castle, have you ever seen a man there, besides the two German servants whom I sent in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“Think carefully. </span><span id="kobo.253.2">I’m not referring to a casual visitor. </span><span id="kobo.253.3">I mean a man who hides himself, a man whose presence you might have discovered or, less than that, whose presence you might have suspected from some clue or even by some intuition?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“No.</span><span id="kobo.254.2">﻿ ﻿… Have you﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.255.2">Someone is hiding here﻿ ﻿… someone is prowling about.</span><span id="kobo.255.3">﻿ ﻿… Where? </span><span id="kobo.255.4">And who is it? </span><span id="kobo.255.5">And what is his object? </span><span id="kobo.255.6">I don’t know﻿ ﻿… but I shall know. </span><span id="kobo.255.7">I already have a suspicion. </span><span id="kobo.255.8">Do you, on your side, keep your eyes open and watch. </span><span id="kobo.255.9">And, above all, not a word to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.255.10">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.256.1"> Kesselbach.</span><span id="kobo.256.2">﻿ ﻿… It is no use alarming her.</span><span id="kobo.256.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">He went away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">Pierre Leduc, taken aback and upset, went back to the castle. </span><span id="kobo.259.2">On his way, he saw a piece of blue paper on the edge of the lawn. </span><span id="kobo.259.3">He picked it up. </span><span id="kobo.259.4">It was a telegram, not crumpled, like a piece of paper that had been thrown away, but carefully folded: </span><span id="kobo.259.5">obviously lost.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">It was addressed to “Beauny,” the name by which Lupin was known at Bruggen. </span><span id="kobo.260.2">And it contained these words:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.261.1">“We know the whole truth. </span><span id="kobo.261.2">Revelations impossible by letter. </span><span id="kobo.261.3">Will take train tonight. </span><span id="kobo.261.4">Meet me eight o’clock tomorrow morning Bruggen station.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Excellent!” </span><span id="kobo.263.2">said Lupin, who was watching Pierre Leduc’s movements from a neighboring coppice. </span><span id="kobo.263.3">“Excellent! </span><span id="kobo.263.4">In two minutes from now, the young idiot will have shown Dolores the telegram and told her all my fears. </span><span id="kobo.263.5">They will talk about it all day. </span><span id="kobo.263.6">And ‘the other one’ will hear, ‘the other one’ will know, because he knows everything, because he lives in Dolores’ own shadow and because Dolores is like a fascinated prey in his hands.</span><span id="kobo.263.7">﻿ ﻿… And, tonight.</span><span id="kobo.263.8">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">He walked away humming to himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“Tonight﻿ ﻿… tonight﻿ ﻿… we shall dance.</span><span id="kobo.265.2">﻿ ﻿… Such a waltz, my boys! </span><span id="kobo.265.3">The waltz of blood, to the tune of the little nickel-plated dagger!</span><span id="kobo.265.4">﻿ ﻿… We shall have some fun, at last!</span><span id="kobo.265.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">He reached the chalet, called to Octave, went to his room, flung himself on his bed, and said to the chauffeur:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“Sit down in that chair, Octave, and keep awake. </span><span id="kobo.267.2">Your master is going to take forty winks. </span><span id="kobo.267.3">Watch over him, you faithful servant.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">He had a good sleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">“Like Napoleon on the morning of Austerlitz,” he said, when he woke up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">It was dinnertime. </span><span id="kobo.270.2">He made a hearty meal and then, while he smoked a cigarette, inspected his weapons and renewed the charges of his two revolvers:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“Keep your powder dry and your sword sharpened, as my chum the Kaiser says. </span><span id="kobo.271.2">Octave!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">Octave appeared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“Go and have your dinner at the castle, with the servants. </span><span id="kobo.273.2">Tell them you are going to Paris tonight, in the motor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“With you, governor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">“No, alone. </span><span id="kobo.275.2">And, as soon as dinner is over, make a start, ostensibly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“But I am not to go to Paris.</span><span id="kobo.276.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“No, remain outside the park, half a mile down the road, until I come. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">You will have a long wait.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">He smoked another cigarette, went for a stroll, passed in front of the castle, saw a light in Dolores’ rooms and then returned to the chalet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">There he took up a book. </span><span id="kobo.279.2">It was </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.279.3">The Lives of Illustrious Men</span></i><span id="kobo.280.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“There is one missing: </span><span id="kobo.282.2">the most illustrious of all. </span><span id="kobo.282.3">But the future will put that right; and I shall have my Plutarch some day or other.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">He read the life of Caesar and jotted down a few reflections in the margin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">At half-past eleven, he went to his bedroom.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">Through the open window, he gazed into the immense, cool night, all astir with indistinct sounds. </span><span id="kobo.285.2">Memories rose to his lips, memories of fond phrases which he had read or uttered; and he repeatedly whispered Dolores’s name, with the fervor of a stripling who hardly dares confide to the silence the name of his beloved.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">He left the window half open, pushed aside a table that blocked the way, and put his revolvers under his pillow. </span><span id="kobo.286.2">Then, peacefully, without evincing the least excitement, he got into bed, fully dressed as he was, and blew out the candle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12">
				<em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.287.1">And his fear began.</span></em>
			</p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.289.1">It was immediate. </span><span id="kobo.289.2">No sooner did he feel the darkness around him than his fear began!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Damn it all!” </span><span id="kobo.290.2">he cried.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">He jumped out of bed, took his weapons and threw them into the passage:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“My hands, my hands alone! </span><span id="kobo.292.2">Nothing comes up to the grip of my hands!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">He went to bed again. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">Darkness and silence, once more. </span><span id="kobo.293.3">And, once more, his fear.</span><span id="kobo.293.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.295.1">The village clock struck twelve.</span><span id="kobo.295.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">Lupin thought of the foul monster who, outside, at a hundred yards, at fifty yards from where he lay, was trying the sharp point of his dagger:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Let him come, let him come?” </span><span id="kobo.297.2">whispered Lupin, shuddering. </span><span id="kobo.297.3">“Then the ghosts will vanish.</span><span id="kobo.297.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.299.1">One o’clock, in the village.</span><span id="kobo.299.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">And minutes passed, endless minutes, minutes of fever and anguish.</span><span id="kobo.300.2">﻿ ﻿… Beads of perspiration stood at the roots of his hair and trickled down his forehead; and he felt as though his whole frame were bathed in a sweat of blood.</span><span id="kobo.300.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">Two o’clock.</span><span id="kobo.301.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">And now, somewhere, quite close, a hardly perceptible sound stirred, a sound of leaves moving﻿ ﻿… but different from the sound of leaves moving in the night breeze.</span><span id="kobo.302.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">As Lupin had foreseen, he was at once pervaded by an immense calm. </span><span id="kobo.303.2">All his adventurous being quivered with delight. </span><span id="kobo.303.3">The struggle was at hand, at last!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">Another sound grated under the window, more plainly this time, but still so faint that it needed Lupin’s trained ear to distinguish it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">Minutes, terrifying minutes.</span><span id="kobo.305.2">﻿ ﻿… The darkness was impenetrable. </span><span id="kobo.305.3">No light of star or moon relieved it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">And, suddenly, without hearing anything, he </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.306.2">knew</span></em><span id="kobo.307.1"> that the man was in the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">And the man walked toward the bed. </span><span id="kobo.309.2">He walked as a ghost walks, without displacing the air of the room, without shaking the objects which he touched.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">But, with all his instinct, with all his nervous force, Lupin saw the movements of the enemy and guessed the very sequence of his ideas.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">He himself did not budge, but remained propped against the wall, almost on his knees, ready to spring.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">He felt that the figure was touching, feeling the bedclothes, to find the spot at which it must strike. </span><span id="kobo.312.2">Lupin heard its breath. </span><span id="kobo.312.3">He even thought that he heard the beating of its heart. </span><span id="kobo.312.4">And he noticed with pride that his own heart beat no louder than before﻿ ﻿… whereas the heart of the other﻿ ﻿… oh, yes, he could hear it now, that disordered, mad heart, knocking, like a clapper of a bell, against the cavity of the chest!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">The hand of the other rose.</span><span id="kobo.313.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">A second, two seconds.</span><span id="kobo.314.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">Was he hesitating? </span><span id="kobo.315.2">Was he once more going to spare his adversary?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">And Lupin, in the great silence, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“But strike! </span><span id="kobo.317.2">Why don’t you strike?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">A yell of rage.</span><span id="kobo.318.2">﻿ ﻿… The arm fell as though moved by a spring.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">Then came a moan.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">Lupin had caught the arm in midair at the level of the wrist.</span><span id="kobo.320.2">﻿ ﻿… And, leaping out of bed, tremendous, irresistible, he clutched the man by the throat and threw him.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.322.1">That was all. </span><span id="kobo.322.2">There was no struggle. </span><span id="kobo.322.3">There was no possibility even of a struggle. </span><span id="kobo.322.4">The man lay on the floor, nailed, pinned by two steel rivets, which were Lupin’s hands. </span><span id="kobo.322.5">And there was not a man in the world strong enough to release himself from that grip.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">And not a word. </span><span id="kobo.323.2">Lupin uttered none of those phrases in which his mocking humor usually delighted. </span><span id="kobo.323.3">He had no inclination to speak. </span><span id="kobo.323.4">The moment was too solemn.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">He felt no vain glee, no victorious exaltation. </span><span id="kobo.324.2">In reality, he had but one longing, to know who was there: </span><span id="kobo.324.3">Louis de Malreich, the man sentenced to death, or another? </span><span id="kobo.324.4">Which was it?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">At the risk of strangling the man, he squeezed the throat a little more﻿ ﻿… and a little more﻿ ﻿… and a little more still.</span><span id="kobo.325.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">And he felt that all the enemy’s strength, all the strength that remained to him, was leaving him. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">The muscles of the arm relaxed and became lifeless. </span><span id="kobo.326.3">The hand opened and dropped the dagger.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">Then, free to move as he pleased, with his adversary’s life hanging in the terrible clutch of his fingers, he took his pocket-lantern with one hand, laid his finger on the spring, without pressing, and brought it close to the man’s face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">He had only to press the spring to wish to know and he would know.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">For a second, he enjoyed his power. </span><span id="kobo.329.2">A flood of emotion upheaved him. </span><span id="kobo.329.3">The vision, of his triumph dazzled him. </span><span id="kobo.329.4">Once again, superbly, heroically, he was the master.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">He switched on the light. </span><span id="kobo.330.2">The face of the monster came into view.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">Lupin gave a shriek of terror.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">Dolores Kesselbach!</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>