<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>XII: The Emperor’s Letters</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-12" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">XII</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Emperor’s Letters</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">The ruins of Veldenz are well known to all who visit the banks of the Rhine and the Moselle. </span><span id="kobo.4.2">They comprise the remains of the old feudal castle, built in 1377 by the Archbishop of Fistingen, an enormous dungeon-keep, gutted by Turenne’s troops, and the walls, left standing in their entirety, of a large Renaissance palace, in which the grand-dukes of Zweibrucken lived for three centuries.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">It was this palace that was sacked by Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.5.2">II</span><span id="kobo.6.1">’s rebellious subjects. </span><span id="kobo.6.2">The empty windows display two hundred yawning cavities on the four frontages. </span><span id="kobo.6.3">All the wainscoting, the hangings and most of the furniture were burnt. </span><span id="kobo.6.4">You walk on the scorched girders of the floors; and the sky can be seen at intervals through the ruined ceilings.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">Lupin, accompanied by his escort, went over the whole building in two hours’ time:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">“I am very pleased with you, my dear count. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">I don’t think I ever came across a guide so well posted in his subject, nor﻿—which is rare﻿—so silent. </span><span id="kobo.9.3">And now, if you don’t mind, we will go to lunch.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">As a matter of fact, Lupin knew no more than at the first moment and his perplexity did nothing but increase. </span><span id="kobo.10.2">To obtain his release from prison and to strike the imagination of his visitor, he had bluffed, pretending to know everything; and he was still seeking for the best place at which to begin to seek.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“Things look bad,” he said to himself, from time to time. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">“Things are looking about as bad as they can look.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">His brain, moreover, was not as clear as usual. </span><span id="kobo.12.2">He was obsessed by an idea, the idea of “the other one,” the murderer, the assassin, whom he knew to be still clinging to his footsteps.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">How did that mysterious personality come to be on his tracks? </span><span id="kobo.13.2">How had he heard of Lupin’s leaving prison and of his rush to Luxemburg and Germany? </span><span id="kobo.13.3">Was it a miraculous intuition? </span><span id="kobo.13.4">Or was it the outcome of definite information? </span><span id="kobo.13.5">But, if so, at what price, by means of what promises or threats was he able to obtain it?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">All these questions haunted Lupin’s mind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">At about four o’clock, however, after a fresh walk through the ruins, in the course of which he had examined the stones, measured the thickness of the walls, investigated the shape and appearance of things, all to no purpose, he asked the count:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">“Is there no one left who was in the service of the last grand-duke who lived in the castle?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">“All the servants of that time went different ways. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">Only one of them continued to live in the district.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“He died two years ago.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">“Any children?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">“He had a son, who married and who was dismissed, with his wife, for disgraceful conduct. </span><span id="kobo.21.2">They left their youngest child behind, a little girl, Isilda.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“Where does she live?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“She lives here, at the end of these buildings. </span><span id="kobo.23.2">The old grandfather used to act as a guide to visitors, in the days when the castle was still open to the public. </span><span id="kobo.23.3">Little Isilda has lived in the ruins ever since. </span><span id="kobo.23.4">She was allowed to remain out of pity. </span><span id="kobo.23.5">She is a poor innocent, who is hardly able to talk and does not know what she says.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“Was she always like that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“It seems not. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">Her reason went gradually, when she was about ten years old.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">“In consequence of a sorrow, of a fright?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">“No, for no direct cause, I am told. </span><span id="kobo.27.2">The father was a drunkard and the mother committed suicide in a fit of madness.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">Lupin reflected and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">“I should like to see her.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">The count gave a rather curious smile:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">“You can see her, by all means.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">She happened to be in one of the rooms which had been set apart for her. </span><span id="kobo.32.2">Lupin was surprised to find an attractive little creature, too thin, too pale, but almost pretty, with her fair hair and her delicate face. </span><span id="kobo.32.3">Her sea-green eyes had the vague, dreamy look of the eyes of blind people.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">He put a few questions to which Isilda gave no answer and others to which she replied with incoherent sentences, as though she understood neither the meaning of the words addressed to her nor those which she herself uttered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">He persisted, taking her very gently by the hand and asking her in an affectionate tone about the time when she still had her reason, about her grandfather, about the memories which might be called up by her life as a child playing freely among the majestic ruins of the castle.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">She stood silent, with staring eyes; impassive, any emotion which she might have felt was not enough to rouse her slumbering intelligence.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">Lupin asked for a pencil and paper and wrote down the number 813.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">The count smiled again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">“Look here, what are you laughing at?” </span><span id="kobo.38.2">cried Lupin, irritably.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“Nothing﻿ ﻿… nothing.</span><span id="kobo.39.2">﻿ ﻿… I’m very much interested, that’s all.</span><span id="kobo.39.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">Isilda looked at the sheet of paper, when he showed it to her, and turned away her head, with a vacant air.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">“No bite!” </span><span id="kobo.41.2">said the count, satirically.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">Lupin wrote the letters “</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.42.2">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.43.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">Isilda paid no more attention than before.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">He did not give up the experiment, but kept on writing the same letters, each time watching the girl’s face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">She did not stir, but kept her eyes fixed on the paper with an indifference which nothing seemed to disturb. </span><span id="kobo.47.2">Then, all at once, she seized the pencil, snatched the last sheet out of Lupin’s hands and, as though acting under a sudden inspiration, wrote two “L’s” in the middle of a space left open by Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">He felt a thrill.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">A word had been formed: </span><span id="kobo.49.2">“</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.49.3">apollon</span></b><span id="kobo.50.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">Meanwhile, Isilda clung to both pencil and paper and, with clutching fingers and a strained face, was struggling to make her hand submit to the hesitating orders of her poor little brain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">Lupin waited, feverishly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">She rapidly wrote another word, the word “</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.54.2">diane</span></b><span id="kobo.55.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“Another word!</span><span id="kobo.57.2">﻿ ﻿… Another word!” </span><span id="kobo.57.3">shouted Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">She twisted her fingers round the pencil, broke the lead, made a big “J” with the stump and, now utterly exhausted, dropped the pencil.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Another word! </span><span id="kobo.59.2">I must have another word!” </span><span id="kobo.59.3">said Lupin, in a tone of command, catching her by the arm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">But he saw by her eyes, which had once more become indifferent, that that fleeting gleam of intelligence could not shine out again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Let us go,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">He was walking away, when she ran after him and stood in his path. </span><span id="kobo.62.2">He stopped:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“What is it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">She held out the palm of her hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“What? </span><span id="kobo.65.2">Money?</span><span id="kobo.65.3">﻿ ﻿… Is she in the habit of begging?” </span><span id="kobo.65.4">he asked the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“No,” said Waldemar, “and I can’t understand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">Isilda took two gold coins from her pocket and chinked them together, gleefully.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">Lupin looked at them. </span><span id="kobo.68.2">They were French coins, quite new, bearing the date of that year.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“Where did you get these?” </span><span id="kobo.69.2">asked Lupin, excitedly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“French money!</span><span id="kobo.70.2">﻿ ﻿… Who gave it you?</span><span id="kobo.70.3">﻿ ﻿… And when?</span><span id="kobo.70.4">﻿ ﻿… Was it today? </span><span id="kobo.70.5">Speak!</span><span id="kobo.70.6">﻿ ﻿… Answer!</span><span id="kobo.70.7">﻿ ﻿…” He shrugged his shoulders. </span><span id="kobo.70.8">“Fool that I am! </span><span id="kobo.70.9">As though she could answer!</span><span id="kobo.70.10">﻿ ﻿… My dear count, would you mind lending me forty marks?</span><span id="kobo.70.11">﻿ ﻿… Thanks﻿ ﻿… Here, Isilda, that’s for you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">She took the two coins, jingled them with the others in the palm of her hand and then, putting out her arm, pointed to the ruins of the Renaissance palace, with a gesture that seemed to call attention more particularly to the left wing and to the top of that wing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">Was it a mechanical movement? </span><span id="kobo.72.2">Or must it be looked upon as a grateful acknowledgment for the two gold coins?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">He glanced at the count. </span><span id="kobo.73.2">Waldemar was smiling again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“What makes the brute keep on grinning like that?” </span><span id="kobo.74.2">said Lupin to himself. </span><span id="kobo.74.3">“Anyone would think that he was having a game with me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">He went to the palace on the off-chance, attended by his escort.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.77.1">The ground-floor consisted of a number of large reception-rooms, running one into the other and containing the few pieces of furniture that had escaped the fire.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">On the first floor, on the north side, was a long gallery, out of which twelve handsome rooms opened all exactly alike.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">There was a similar gallery on the second floor, but with twenty-four smaller rooms, also resembling one another. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">All these apartments were empty, dilapidated, wretched to look at.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">Above, there was nothing. </span><span id="kobo.80.2">The attics had been burnt down.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">For an hour, Lupin walked, ran, rushed about indefatigably, with his eyes on the lookout.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">When it began to grow dusk, he hurried to one of his twelve rooms on the first floor, as if he were selecting it for special reasons known to himself alone. </span><span id="kobo.82.2">He was rather surprised to find the Emperor there, smoking and seated in an armchair which he had sent for.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">Taking no notice of his presence, Lupin began an inspection of the room, according to the methods which he was accustomed to employ in such cases, dividing the room into sections, each of which he examined in turn.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">After twenty minutes of this work, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“I must beg you, Sire, to be good enough to move. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">There is a fireplace here.</span><span id="kobo.85.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">The Emperor tossed his head:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“Is it really necessary for me to move?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">“Yes, Sire, this fireplace﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“The fireplace is just the same as the others and the room is no different from its fellows.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">Lupin looked at the Emperor without understanding. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">The Emperor rose and said, with a laugh:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“I think, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.91.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.92.1"> Lupin, that you have been making just a little fun of me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“How do you mean, Sire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“Oh, it’s hardly worth mentioning! </span><span id="kobo.95.2">You obtained your release on the condition of handing me certain papers in which I am interested and you have not the smallest notion as to where they are. </span><span id="kobo.95.3">I have been thoroughly﻿—what do you call it, in French?</span><span id="kobo.95.4">﻿—</span><i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.95.5">roulé</span></i><span id="kobo.96.1"> ‘done’!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">“Do you think so, Sire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Why, what a man knows he doesn’t have to hunt for! </span><span id="kobo.99.2">And you have been hunting for ten good hours! </span><span id="kobo.99.3">Doesn’t it strike you as a case for an immediate return to prison?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">Lupin seemed thunderstruck:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.101.1">“Did not Your Imperial Majesty fix twelve o’clock tomorrow as the last limit?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">“Why wait?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“Why? </span><span id="kobo.103.2">Well, to allow me to complete my work!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">“Your work? </span><span id="kobo.104.2">But it’s not even begun, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.104.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.105.1"> Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“There Your Imperial Majesty is mistaken.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“Prove it﻿ ﻿… and I will wait until tomorrow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">Lupin reflected and, speaking in a serious tone:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">“Since Your Imperial Majesty requires proofs in order to have confidence in me, I will furnish them. </span><span id="kobo.110.2">The twelve rooms leading out of this gallery each bear a different name, which is inscribed in French﻿—obviously by a French decorative artist﻿—over the various doors. </span><span id="kobo.110.3">One of the inscriptions, less damaged by the fire than the others, caught my eye as I was passing along the gallery. </span><span id="kobo.110.4">I examined the other doors: </span><span id="kobo.110.5">all of them bore hardly legible traces of names caned over the pediments. </span><span id="kobo.110.6">Thus I found a ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.110.7">D</span></b><span id="kobo.111.1">’ and an ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.112.1">E</span></b><span id="kobo.113.1">’ the first and last letters of ‘Diane.’ </span><span id="kobo.113.2">I found an ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.114.1">a</span></b><span id="kobo.115.1">’ and ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.116.1">lon</span></b><span id="kobo.117.1">’ which pointed to ‘Apollon.’ </span><span id="kobo.117.2">These are the French equivalents of Diana and Apollo, both of them mythological deities. </span><span id="kobo.117.3">The other inscriptions presented similar characteristics. </span><span id="kobo.117.4">I discovered traces of such names as Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, Saturn and so on. </span><span id="kobo.117.5">This part of the problem was solved: </span><span id="kobo.117.6">each of the twelve rooms bears the name of an Olympian god or goddess; and the letters </span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.118.1">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.119.1">, completed by Isilda, point to the Apollo Room or </span><i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.120.1">Salle d’Apollon</span></i><span id="kobo.121.1">. </span><span id="kobo.121.2">So it is here, in the room in which we now are, that the letters are hidden. </span><span id="kobo.121.3">A few minutes, perhaps, will suffice in which to discover them.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“A few minutes or a few years﻿ ﻿… or even longer!” </span><span id="kobo.123.2">said the Emperor, laughing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">He seemed greatly amused; and the count also displayed a coarse merriment.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">Lupin asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“Would Your Imperial Majesty be good enough to explain?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.127.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.128.1"> Lupin, the exciting investigation which you have conducted today and of which you are telling us the brilliant results has already been made by me﻿ ﻿… yes, a fortnight ago, in the company of your friend Holmlock Shears. </span><span id="kobo.128.2">Together we questioned little Isilda; together, we employed the same method in dealing with her that you did; and together we observed the names in the gallery and got as far as this room, the Apollo Room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">Lupin turned livid. </span><span id="kobo.130.2">He spluttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Oh, did Shears get﻿ ﻿… as far as﻿ ﻿… this?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“Yes, after four days’ searching. </span><span id="kobo.132.2">True, it did not help us, for we found nothing. </span><span id="kobo.132.3">All the same, I know that the letters are not here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">Trembling with rage, wounded in his innermost pride, Lupin fired up under the gibe, as though he had been lashed with a whip. </span><span id="kobo.133.2">He had never felt humiliated to such a degree as this. </span><span id="kobo.133.3">In this fury, he could have strangled the fat Waldemar, whose laughter incensed him. </span><span id="kobo.133.4">Containing himself with an effort, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“It took Shears four days, Sire, and me only four hours. </span><span id="kobo.134.2">And I should have required even less, if I had not been thwarted in my search.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“And by whom, bless my soul? </span><span id="kobo.135.2">By my faithful count? </span><span id="kobo.135.3">I hope he did not dare﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“No, Sire, but by the most terrible and powerful of my enemies, by that infernal being who killed his own accomplice Altenheim.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.137.1">“Is he here? </span><span id="kobo.137.2">Do you think so?” </span><span id="kobo.137.3">exclaimed the Emperor, with an agitation which showed that he was familiar with every detail of the dramatic story.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">“He is wherever I am. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">He threatens me with his constant hatred. </span><span id="kobo.138.3">It was he who guessed that I was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.138.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.139.1"> Lenormand, the chief of the detective-service; it was he who had me put in prison; it was he, again, who pursued me, on the day when I came out. </span><span id="kobo.139.2">Yesterday, aiming at me in the motor, he wounded Count von Waldemar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“But how do you know, how can you be sure that he is at Veldenz?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.142.1">“Isilda has received two gold coins, two French coins!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.143.1">“And what is he here for? </span><span id="kobo.143.2">With what object?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“I don’t know, Sire, but he is the very spirit of evil. </span><span id="kobo.144.2">Your Imperial Majesty must be on your guard: </span><span id="kobo.144.3">he is capable of anything and everything.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.145.1">“It is impossible! </span><span id="kobo.145.2">I have two hundred men in the ruins. </span><span id="kobo.145.3">He cannot have entered. </span><span id="kobo.145.4">He would have been seen.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“Someone has seen him, beyond a doubt.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.147.1">“Who?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.148.1">“Isilda.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“Let her be questioned! </span><span id="kobo.149.2">Waldemar, take your prisoner to where the girl is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.150.1">Lupin showed his bound hands:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.151.1">“It will be a tough battle. </span><span id="kobo.151.2">Can I fight like this?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">The Emperor said to the count:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">“Unfasten him.</span><span id="kobo.153.2">﻿ ﻿… And keep me informed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">In this way, by a sudden effort, bringing the hateful vision of the murder into the discussion, boldly, without evidence, Arsène Lupin gained time and resumed the direction of the search:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">“Sixteen hours still,” he said to himself, “it’s more than I want.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.157.1">He reached the premises occupied by Isilda, at the end of the old outbuildings. </span><span id="kobo.157.2">These buildings served as barracks for the two hundred soldiers guarding the ruins; and the whole of this, the left wing, was reserved for the officers.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">Isilda was not there. </span><span id="kobo.158.2">The count sent two of his men to look for her. </span><span id="kobo.158.3">They came back. </span><span id="kobo.158.4">No one had seen the girl.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">Nevertheless, she could not have left the precincts of the ruins. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">As for the Renaissance palace, it was, so to speak, invested by one-half of the troops; and no one was able to obtain admittance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">At last, the wife of a subaltern who lived in the next house declared that she had been sitting at her window all day and that the girl had not been out.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“If she hadn’t gone out,” said Waldemar, “she would be here now: </span><span id="kobo.161.2">and she is not here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">Lupin observed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“Is there a floor above?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“Yes, but from this room to the upper floor there is no staircase.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“Yes, there is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.166.1">He pointed to a little door opening on a dark recess. </span><span id="kobo.166.2">In the shadow, he saw the first treads of a staircase as steep as a ladder.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">“Please, my dear count,” he said to Waldemar, who wanted to go up, “let me have the honor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">“There’s danger.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">He ran up and at once sprang into a low and narrow loft. </span><span id="kobo.170.2">A cry escaped him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Oh!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“What is it?” </span><span id="kobo.172.2">asked the count, emerging in his turn.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">“Here﻿ ﻿… on the floor.</span><span id="kobo.173.2">﻿ ﻿… Isilda.</span><span id="kobo.173.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.174.1">He knelt down beside the girl, but, at the first glance, saw that she was simply stunned and that she bore no trace of a wound, except a few scratches on the wrists and hands. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">A handkerchief was stuffed into her mouth by way of a gag.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“That’s it,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.175.2">“The murderer was here with her. </span><span id="kobo.175.3">When we came, he struck her a blow with his fist and gagged her so that we should not hear her moans.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“But how did he get away?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Through here﻿ ﻿… look﻿ ﻿… there is a passage connecting all the attics on the first floor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">“And from there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">“From there, he went down the stairs of one of the other dwellings.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“But he would have been seen!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“Pooh, who knows? </span><span id="kobo.181.2">The creature’s invisible. </span><span id="kobo.181.3">Never mind! </span><span id="kobo.181.4">Send your men to look. </span><span id="kobo.181.5">Tell them to search all the attics and all the ground-floor lodgings.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">He hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">Should he also go in pursuit of the murderer?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">But a sound brought him back to the girl’s side. </span><span id="kobo.183.2">She had got up from the floor and a dozen pieces of gold money had dropped from her hands. </span><span id="kobo.183.3">He examined them. </span><span id="kobo.183.4">They were all French.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“Ah,” he said, “I was right! </span><span id="kobo.184.2">Only, why so much gold? </span><span id="kobo.184.3">In reward for what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">Suddenly, he caught sight of a book on the floor and stooped to pick it up. </span><span id="kobo.185.2">But the girl darted forward with a quicker movement, seized the book and pressed it to her bosom with a fierce energy, as though prepared to defend it against any attempt to take hold of it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“That’s it,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.186.2">“The money was offered her for the book, but she refused to part with it. </span><span id="kobo.186.3">Hence the scratches on the hands. </span><span id="kobo.186.4">The interesting thing would be to know why the murderer wished to possess the book. </span><span id="kobo.186.5">Was he able to look through it first?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">He said to Waldemar:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“My dear count, please give the order.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">Waldemar made a sign to his men. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">Three of them threw themselves on the girl and, after a hard tussle, in which the poor thing stamped, writhed and screamed with rage, they took the volume from her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“Gently, child,” said Lupin, “be calm.</span><span id="kobo.190.2">﻿ ﻿… It’s all in a good cause.</span><span id="kobo.190.3">﻿ ﻿… Keep an eye on her, will you? </span><span id="kobo.190.4">Meanwhile, I will have a look at the object in dispute.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">It was an odd volume of Montesquieu’s </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.191.2">Voyage au temple de Guide</span></i><span id="kobo.192.1">, in a binding at least a century old. </span><span id="kobo.192.2">But Lupin had hardly opened it before he exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“I say, I say, this is queer! </span><span id="kobo.194.2">There is a sheet of parchment stuck on each right hand page; and those sheets are covered with a very close, small handwriting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">He read, at the beginning:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.196.1">“Diary of the Chevalier </span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.196.2">Gilles de Malrêche</span></b><span id="kobo.197.1">, French servant to His Royal Highness the Prince of </span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.198.1">Zweibruckenveldenz</span></b><span id="kobo.199.1">, begun in the Year of Our Lord 1794.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">“What! </span><span id="kobo.202.2">Does it say that?” </span><span id="kobo.202.3">asked the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“What surprises you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Isilda’s grandfather, the old man who died two years ago, was called Malreich, which is the German form of the same name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“Capital! </span><span id="kobo.205.2">Isilda’s grandfather must have been the son or the grandson of the French servant who wrote his diary in an odd volume of Montesquieu’s works. </span><span id="kobo.205.3">And that is how the diary came into Isilda’s hands.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">He turned the pages at random:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.207.1">“</span><time datetime="1796-09-15" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.207.2">15 September, 1796</span></time><span id="kobo.208.1">. </span><span id="kobo.208.2">His Royal Highness went hunting.</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.211.1">“</span><time datetime="1796-09-20" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.211.2">20 September, 1796</span></time><span id="kobo.212.1">. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">His Royal Highness went out riding. </span><span id="kobo.212.3">He was mounted on Cupidon.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“By Jove!” </span><span id="kobo.215.2">muttered Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.215.3">“So far, it’s not very exciting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">He turned over a number of pages and read:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.217.1">“</span><time datetime="1803-03-12" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.217.2">12 March, 1803.</span></time><span id="kobo.218.1"> I have remitted ten crowns to Hermann. </span><span id="kobo.218.2">He is giving music-lessons in London.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">Lupin gave a laugh:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“Oho! </span><span id="kobo.222.2">Hermann is dethroned and our respect comes down with a rush!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“Yes,” observed Waldemar, “the reigning grand-duke was driven from his dominions by the French troops.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">Lupin continued:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.225.1">“</span><time datetime="1809" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.225.2">1809. </span><span id="kobo.225.3">Tuesday.</span></time><span id="kobo.226.1"> Napoleon slept at Veldenz last night. </span><span id="kobo.226.2">I made His Majesty’s bed and this morning I emptied his slops.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“Oh, did Napoleon stop at Veldenz?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“Yes, yes, on his way back to the army, at the time of the Austrian campaign, which ended with the battle of Wagram. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">It was an honor of which the grand-duchal family were very proud afterwards.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">Lupin went on reading:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.232.1">“</span><time datetime="1814-10-28" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.232.2">28 October, 1814</span></time><span id="kobo.233.1">. </span><span id="kobo.233.2">His Royal Highness returned to his dominions.</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.236.1">“</span><time datetime="1814-10-29" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.236.2">29 October, 1814</span></time><span id="kobo.237.1">. </span><span id="kobo.237.2">I accompanied His Royal Highness to the hiding-place last night and was happy to be able to show him that no one had guessed its existence. </span><span id="kobo.237.3">For that matter, who would have suspected that a hiding-place could be contrived in﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">Lupin stopped, with a shout. </span><span id="kobo.240.2">Isilda had suddenly escaped from the men guarding her, made a grab at him and taken to flight, carrying the book with her.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Oh, the little mischief! </span><span id="kobo.241.2">Quick, you!</span><span id="kobo.241.3">﻿ ﻿… Go round by the stairs below. </span><span id="kobo.241.4">I’ll run after her by the passage.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">But she had slammed the door behind her and bolted it. </span><span id="kobo.242.2">He had to go down and run along the buildings with the others, looking for a staircase which would take them to the first floor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">The fourth house was the only one open. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">He went upstairs. </span><span id="kobo.243.3">But the passage was empty and he had to knock at doors, force locks and make his way into unoccupied rooms, while Waldemar, showing as much ardor in the pursuit as himself, pricked the curtains and hangings with the point of his sword.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">A voice called out from the ground-floor, towards the right wing. </span><span id="kobo.244.2">They rushed in that direction. </span><span id="kobo.244.3">It was one of the officers’ wives, who beckoned to them at the end of a passage and told them that the girl must be in her lodging.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">“How do you know?” </span><span id="kobo.245.2">asked Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“I wanted to go to my room. </span><span id="kobo.246.2">The door was shut and I could not get in.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">Lupin tried and found the door locked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“The window!” </span><span id="kobo.248.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.248.3">“There must be a window!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">He went outside, took the count’s sword and smashed the panes. </span><span id="kobo.249.2">Then, helped up by two men, he hung on to the wall, passed his arm through the broken glass, turned the latch and stumbled into the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">He saw Isilda huddled before the fireplace, almost in the midst of the flames:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“The little beast!” </span><span id="kobo.251.2">he said. </span><span id="kobo.251.3">“She has thrown it into the fire!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">He pushed her back savagely, tried to take the book and burnt his hands in the attempt. </span><span id="kobo.252.2">Then, with the tongs, he pulled it out of the grate and threw the table cloth over it to stifle the blaze.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">But it was too late. </span><span id="kobo.253.2">The pages of the old manuscript, all burnt up, were falling into ashes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">Lupin gazed at her in silence. </span><span id="kobo.254.2">The count said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“One would think that she knew what she was doing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“No, she does not know. </span><span id="kobo.256.2">Only, her grandfather must have entrusted her with that book as a sort of treasure, a treasure which no one was ever to set eyes on, and, with her stupid instinct, she preferred to throw it into the fire rather than part with it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">“Well then.</span><span id="kobo.257.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">“Well then what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“You won’t find the hiding-place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">“Aha, my dear count, so you did, for a moment, look upon my success as possible? </span><span id="kobo.260.2">And Lupin does not strike you as quite a charlatan? </span><span id="kobo.260.3">Make your mind easy, Waldemar: </span><span id="kobo.260.4">Lupin has more than one string to his bow. </span><span id="kobo.260.5">I shall succeed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“Before twelve o’clock tomorrow?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“Before twelve o’clock tonight. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">But, for the moment, I am starving with hunger. </span><span id="kobo.262.3">And, if your kindness would go so far.</span><span id="kobo.262.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">He was taken to the sergeants’ mess and a substantial meal prepared for him, while the count went to make his report to the Emperor.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.265.1">Twenty minutes later, Waldemar returned and they sat down and dined together, opposite each other, silent and pensive.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“Waldemar, a good cigar would be a treat.</span><span id="kobo.266.2">﻿ ﻿… I thank you.</span><span id="kobo.266.3">﻿ ﻿… Ah, this one crackles as a self-respecting Havana should!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">He lit his cigar and, after a minute or two:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“You can smoke, count; I don’t mind in the least; in fact, I rather like it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">An hour passed. </span><span id="kobo.269.2">Waldemar dozed and, from time to time, swallowed a glass of brandy to wake himself up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">Soldiers passed in and out, waiting on them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“Coffee,” asked Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">They brought him some coffee.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“What bad stuff!” </span><span id="kobo.273.2">he grumbled. </span><span id="kobo.273.3">“If that’s what Caesar drinks!</span><span id="kobo.273.4">﻿ ﻿… Give me another cup all the same, Waldemar. </span><span id="kobo.273.5">We may have a long night before us. </span><span id="kobo.273.6">Oh, what vile coffee!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">He lit a second cigar and did not say another word. </span><span id="kobo.274.2">Ten minutes passed. </span><span id="kobo.274.3">He continued not to move or speak.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.275.1">Suddenly, Waldemar sprang to his feet and said to Lupin, angrily:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.276.1">“Hi! </span><span id="kobo.276.2">Stand up, there!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">Lupin was whistling a tune at the moment. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">He kept on whistling, peacefully.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“Stand up, I say!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.279.1">Lupin turned round. </span><span id="kobo.279.2">His Imperial Majesty had just entered. </span><span id="kobo.279.3">Lupin rose from his chair.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.280.1">“How far are we?” </span><span id="kobo.280.2">asked the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“I think, Sire, that I shall be able to satisfy Your Imperial Majesty soon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“What? </span><span id="kobo.282.2">Do you know﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.283.1">“The hiding-place? </span><span id="kobo.283.2">Very nearly, Sire.</span><span id="kobo.283.3">﻿ ﻿… A few details still escape me﻿ ﻿… but everything will be cleared up, once we are on the spot: </span><span id="kobo.283.4">I have no doubt of it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.284.1">“Are we to stay here?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.285.1">“No, Sire, I will beg you to go with me to the Renaissance palace. </span><span id="kobo.285.2">But we have plenty of time; and, if Your Imperial Majesty will permit me, I should like first to think over two or three points.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">Without waiting for the reply, he sat down, to Waldemar’s great indignation.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">In a few minutes, the Emperor, who had walked away and was talking to the count, came up to him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.288.1">“Are you ready now, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.288.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.289.1"> Lupin?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">Lupin kept silence. </span><span id="kobo.291.2">A fresh question. </span><span id="kobo.291.3">His head fell on his chest.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“But he’s asleep; I really believe that he’s asleep!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.293.1">Waldemar, beside himself with rage, shook him violently by the shoulder. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">Lupin fell from his chair, sank to the floor, gave two or three convulsive movements and then lay quite still.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.294.1">“What’s the matter with him?” </span><span id="kobo.294.2">exclaimed the Emperor. </span><span id="kobo.294.3">“He’s not dead, I hope!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">He took a lamp and bent over him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“How pale he is! </span><span id="kobo.296.2">A face like wax!</span><span id="kobo.296.3">﻿ ﻿… Look, Waldemar.</span><span id="kobo.296.4">﻿ ﻿… Feel his heart.</span><span id="kobo.296.5">﻿ ﻿… He’s alive, is he not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Yes, Sire,” said the count, after a moment, “the heart is beating quite regularly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“Then what is it? </span><span id="kobo.298.2">I don’t understand.</span><span id="kobo.298.3">﻿ ﻿… What happened?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“Shall I go and fetch the doctor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">“Yes, run.</span><span id="kobo.300.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">The doctor found Lupin in the same state, lying inert and quiet. </span><span id="kobo.301.2">He had him put on a bed, subjected him to a long examination and asked what he had had to eat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.302.1">“Do you suspect a case of poisoning, doctor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.303.1">“No, Sire, there are no traces of poisoning. </span><span id="kobo.303.2">But I am thinking﻿ ﻿… what’s on that tray and in that cup?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“Coffee,” said the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“For you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“No, for him. </span><span id="kobo.306.2">I did not have any.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">The doctor poured out some coffee, tasted it and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.308.1">“I was right. </span><span id="kobo.308.2">He has been put to sleep with a narcotic.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.309.1">“But by whom?” </span><span id="kobo.309.2">cried the Emperor, angrily. </span><span id="kobo.309.3">“Look here, Waldemar; it’s exasperating, the way things happen in this place!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“Sire?</span><span id="kobo.310.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“Well, yes, I’ve had enough of it!</span><span id="kobo.311.2">﻿ ﻿… I am really beginning to believe that the man’s right and that there is someone in the castle.</span><span id="kobo.311.3">﻿ ﻿… That French money, that narcotic.</span><span id="kobo.311.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“If anyone had got into this enclosure, Sire, it would be known by this time.</span><span id="kobo.312.2">﻿ ﻿… We’ve been hunting in every direction for three hours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“Still, I didn’t make the coffee, I assure you.</span><span id="kobo.313.2">﻿ ﻿… And, unless you did.</span><span id="kobo.313.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.314.1">“Oh, Sire!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.315.1">“Well, then, hunt about﻿ ﻿… search.</span><span id="kobo.315.2">﻿ ﻿… You have two hundred men at your disposal; and the outhouses are not so large as all that! </span><span id="kobo.315.3">For, after all, the ruffian is prowling round here, round these buildings﻿ ﻿… near the kitchen﻿ ﻿… somewhere or other! </span><span id="kobo.315.4">Go and bustle about!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">The fat Waldemar bustled about all night, conscientiously, because it was the master’s order, but without conviction, because it was impossible for a stranger to hide among ruins which were so well-watched. </span><span id="kobo.316.2">And, as a matter of fact, the event proved that he was right: </span><span id="kobo.316.3">the investigations were fruitless; and no one was able to discover the mysterious hand that had prepared the narcotic drink.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">Lupin spent the night lifeless on his bed. </span><span id="kobo.317.2">In the morning, the doctor, who had not left his side, told a messenger of the Emperor’s that he was still asleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">At nine o’clock, however, he made his first movement, a sort of effort to wake up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">Later on, he stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“What time is it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">“Twenty-five to ten.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">He made a fresh effort; and it was evident that, in the midst of his torpor, his whole being was intent upon returning to life.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">A clock struck ten.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">He started and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.325.1">“Let them carry me; let them carry me to the palace.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.326.1">With the doctor’s approval, Waldemar called his men and sent word to the Emperor. </span><span id="kobo.326.2">They laid Lupin on a stretcher and set out for the palace.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“The first floor,” he muttered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.328.1">They carried him up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.329.1">“At the end of the corridor,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.329.2">“The last room on the left.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">They carried him to the last room, which was the twelfth, and gave him a chair, on which he sat down, exhausted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">The Emperor arrived: </span><span id="kobo.331.2">Lupin did not stir, sat looking, unconscious, with no expression in his eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">Then, in a few minutes, he seemed to wake, looked round him, at the walls, the ceilings, the people, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.333.1">“A narcotic, I suppose?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“Yes,” said the doctor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.335.1">“Have they found﻿ ﻿… the man?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">He seemed to be meditating and several times jerked his head with a thoughtful air: </span><span id="kobo.337.2">but they soon saw that he was asleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">The Emperor went up to Waldemar:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“Order your car round.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“Oh?</span><span id="kobo.340.2">﻿ ﻿… But then, Sire﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“Well, what? </span><span id="kobo.341.2">I am beginning to think that he is taking us in and that all this is merely playacting, to gain time.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“Possibly﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿…” said Waldemar, agreeing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.343.1">“It’s quite obvious! </span><span id="kobo.343.2">He is making the most of certain curious coincidences, but he knows nothing; and his story about gold coins and his narcotic are so many inventions! </span><span id="kobo.343.3">If we lend ourselves to his little game any longer, he’ll slip out of your fingers. </span><span id="kobo.343.4">Your car, Waldemar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">The count gave his orders and returned. </span><span id="kobo.344.2">Lupin had not woke up. </span><span id="kobo.344.3">The Emperor, who was looking round the room, said to Waldemar:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“This is the Minerva room, is it not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.346.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">“But then why is there an ‘N’ in two places?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">There were, in fact, two “N’s,” one over the chimneypiece, the other over an old dilapidated clock fitted into the wall and displaying a complicated set of works, with weights hanging lifeless at the end of their cords.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">“The two ‘N’s’﻿ ﻿…” said Waldemar.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">The Emperor did not listen to the answer. </span><span id="kobo.350.2">Lupin had moved again, opening his eyes and uttering indistinct syllables. </span><span id="kobo.350.3">He stood up, walked across the room and fell down from sheer weakness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">Then came the struggle, the desperate struggle of his brain, his nerves, his will against that hideous, paralyzing torpor, the struggle of a dying man against death, the struggle of life against extinction. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">And the sight was one of infinite sadness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">“He is suffering,” muttered Waldemar.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">“Or at least, he is pretending to suffer,” declared the Emperor, “and pretending very cleverly at that. </span><span id="kobo.353.2">What an actor!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">Lupin stammered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.355.1">“An injection, doctor, an injection of caffeine﻿ ﻿… at once.</span><span id="kobo.355.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.356.1">“May I, Sire?” </span><span id="kobo.356.2">asked the doctor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.357.1">“Certainly.</span><span id="kobo.357.2">﻿ ﻿… Until twelve o’clock, do all that he asks. </span><span id="kobo.357.3">He has my promise.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.358.1">“How many minutes﻿ ﻿… before twelve o’clock?” </span><span id="kobo.358.2">asked Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">“Forty,” said somebody.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">“Forty?</span><span id="kobo.360.2">﻿ ﻿… I shall do it.</span><span id="kobo.360.3">﻿ ﻿… I am sure to do it.</span><span id="kobo.360.4">﻿ ﻿… I’ve got to do it.</span><span id="kobo.360.5">﻿ ﻿…” He took his head in his two hands. </span><span id="kobo.360.6">“Oh, if I had my brain, the real brain, the brain that thinks! </span><span id="kobo.360.7">It would be a matter of a second! </span><span id="kobo.360.8">There is only one dark spot left﻿ ﻿… but I cannot﻿ ﻿… my thoughts escape me.</span><span id="kobo.360.9">﻿ ﻿… I can’t grasp it﻿ ﻿… it’s awful.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">His shoulders shook. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">Was he crying?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">They heard him repeating:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“813﻿ ﻿… 813.</span><span id="kobo.363.2">﻿ ﻿…” And, in a lower voice, “813﻿ ﻿… an ‘8’﻿ ﻿… a ‘1’﻿ ﻿… a ‘3’﻿ ﻿… yes, of course.</span><span id="kobo.363.3">﻿ ﻿… But why?</span><span id="kobo.363.4">﻿ ﻿… That’s not enough.</span><span id="kobo.363.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.364.1">The Emperor muttered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.365.1">“He impresses me. </span><span id="kobo.365.2">I find it difficult to believe that a man can play a part like that.</span><span id="kobo.365.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">Half-past eleven struck﻿ ﻿… a quarter to twelve.</span><span id="kobo.366.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">Lupin remained motionless, with his fists glued to his temples.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">The Emperor waited, with his eyes fixed on a chronometer which Waldemar held in his hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.369.1">Ten minutes more﻿ ﻿… five minutes more﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.370.1">“Is the car there, Waldemar?</span><span id="kobo.370.2">﻿ ﻿… Are your men ready?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“Is that watch of yours a repeater, Waldemar?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“At the last stroke of twelve, then.</span><span id="kobo.374.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“But﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">“At the last stroke of twelve, Waldemar.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">There was really something tragic about the scene, that sort of grandeur and solemnity which the hours assume at the approach of a possible miracle, when it seems as though the voice of fate itself were about to find utterance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">The Emperor did not conceal his anguish. </span><span id="kobo.378.2">This fantastic adventurer who was called Arsène Lupin and whose amazing life he knew, this man troubled him﻿ ﻿… and, although he was resolved to make an end of all this dubious story, he could not help waiting﻿ ﻿… and hoping.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.379.1">Two minutes more﻿ ﻿… one minute more﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">Then they counted by seconds.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">Lupin seemed asleep.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“Come, get ready,” said the Emperor to the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">The count went up to Lupin and placed his hand on his shoulder.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">The silvery chime of the repeater quivered and struck﻿ ﻿… one, two, three, four, five﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">“Waldemar, old chap, pull the weights of the old clock.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">A moment of stupefaction. </span><span id="kobo.386.2">It was Lupin’s voice, speaking very calmly.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">Waldemar, annoyed at the familiarity of the address, shrugged his shoulders.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">“Do as he says, Waldemar,” said the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">“Yes, do as I say, my dear count,” echoed Lupin, recovering his powers of chaff. </span><span id="kobo.389.2">“You know the ropes so well﻿ ﻿… all you have to do is to pull those of the clock﻿ ﻿… in turns﻿ ﻿… one, two﻿ ﻿… capital!</span><span id="kobo.389.3">﻿ ﻿… That’s how they used to wind it up in the old days.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">The pendulum, in fact, was started; and they heard its regular ticking.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Now the hands,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.391.2">“Set them at a little before twelve﻿ ﻿… Don’t move﻿ ﻿… Let me﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">He rose and walked to the face of the clock, standing two feet away, at most, with his eyes fixed, with every nerve attentive.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">The twelve strokes sounded, twelve heavy, deep strokes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">A long silence. </span><span id="kobo.394.2">Nothing happened. </span><span id="kobo.394.3">Nevertheless, the Emperor waited, as though he were sure that something was going to happen. </span><span id="kobo.394.4">And Waldemar did not move, stood with wide-open eyes.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.395.1">Lupin, who had stooped over the clock-face, now drew himself up, muttering:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.396.1">“That’s it﻿ ﻿… I have it.</span><span id="kobo.396.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">He went back to his chair and commanded:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“Waldemar, set the hands at two minutes to twelve again. </span><span id="kobo.398.2">Oh, no, old chap, not backwards! </span><span id="kobo.398.3">The way the hands go!</span><span id="kobo.398.4">﻿ ﻿… Yes, I know, it will take rather long﻿ ﻿… but it can’t be helped.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">All the hours struck and the half hours, up to half-past eleven.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">“Listen, Waldemar,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">And he spoke seriously, without jesting, as though himself excited and anxious:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">“Listen, Waldemar. </span><span id="kobo.402.2">Do you see on the face of the clock a little round dot marking the first hour? </span><span id="kobo.402.3">That dot is loose, isn’t it? </span><span id="kobo.402.4">Put the forefinger of your left hand on it and press. </span><span id="kobo.402.5">Good. </span><span id="kobo.402.6">Do the same with your thumb on the dot marking the third hour. </span><span id="kobo.402.7">Good. </span><span id="kobo.402.8">With your right hand, push in the dot at the eighth hour. </span><span id="kobo.402.9">Good. </span><span id="kobo.402.10">Thank you. </span><span id="kobo.402.11">Go and sit down, my dear fellow.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.403.1">The minute-hand shifted, moved to the twelfth dot and the clock struck again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.404.1">Lupin was silent and very white. </span><span id="kobo.404.2">The twelve strokes rang out in the silence.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">At the twelfth stroke, there was a sound as of a spring being set free. </span><span id="kobo.405.2">The clock stopped dead. </span><span id="kobo.405.3">The pendulum ceased swinging.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.406.1">And suddenly, the bronze ornament representing a ram’s head, which crowned the dial, fell forwards, uncovering a sort of little recess cut out of the stone wall.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.407.1">In this recess was a chased silver casket.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">Lupin took it and carried it to the Emperor:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.409.1">“Would Your Imperial Majesty be so good as to open it yourself? </span><span id="kobo.409.2">The letters which you instructed me to look for are inside.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.410.1">The Emperor raised the lid and seemed greatly astonished.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12">
				<em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.411.1">The casket was empty.</span></em>
			</p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">The casket was empty.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.414.1">It was an enormous, unforeseen sensation. </span><span id="kobo.414.2">After the success of the calculation made by Lupin, after the ingenious discovery of the secret of the clock, the Emperor, who had no doubt left as to the ultimate success, appeared utterly confounded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.415.1">Opposite him was Lupin, pallid and wan, with drawn jaws and bloodshot eyes, gnashing his teeth with rage and impotent hate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.416.1">He wiped the perspiration from his forehead, then snatched up the casket, turned it over, examined it, as though he hoped to find a false bottom. </span><span id="kobo.416.2">At last, for greater certainty, in a fit of fury, he crushed it, with an irresistible grip.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.417.1">That relieved him. </span><span id="kobo.417.2">He breathed more easily.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.418.1">The Emperor said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">“Who has done this?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">“Still the same man, Sire, the one who is following the same road as I and pursuing the same aim: </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.420.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.421.1"> Kesselbach’s murderer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.423.1">“When?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.424.1">“Last night. </span><span id="kobo.424.2">Ah, Sire, why did you not leave me free when I came out of prison! </span><span id="kobo.424.3">Had I been free, I should have come here without losing an hour. </span><span id="kobo.424.4">I should have arrived before him! </span><span id="kobo.424.5">I should have given Isilda money before he did! </span><span id="kobo.424.6">I should have read Malreich, the old French servant’s diary, before he did!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“So you think that it was through the revelations in the diary﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">“Why, yes, Sire! </span><span id="kobo.426.2">He had time to read them. </span><span id="kobo.426.3">And, lurking I don’t know where, kept informed of all our movements by I don’t know whom, he put me to sleep last night, in order to get rid of me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">“But the palace was guarded.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">“Guarded by your soldiers, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.428.2">Does that count with a man like him? </span><span id="kobo.428.3">Besides, I have no doubt that Waldemar concentrated his search upon the outbuildings, thus thinning the posts in the palace.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.429.1">“But the sound of the clock! </span><span id="kobo.429.2">Those twelve strokes in the night!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.430.1">“It was mere child’s play, Sire, mere child’s play, to him, to prevent the clock from striking!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">“All this seems very impossible to my mind.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">“It all seems monstrous clear to mine, Sire! </span><span id="kobo.432.2">If it were possible to feel in every one of your soldiers’ pockets here and now, or to know how much money they will each of them spend during the next twelve months, we should be sure to find two or three who are, at this moment, in possession of a few banknotes: </span><span id="kobo.432.3">French banknotes, of course.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.433.2">protested Waldemar.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">“But yes, my dear count, it is a question of price; and that makes no difference to ‘him.’ </span><span id="kobo.434.2">If ‘he’ wished, I am sure that you yourself﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">The Emperor, wrapped up in his own thoughts, was not listening. </span><span id="kobo.435.2">He walked across the room from left to right and right to left, then beckoned to one of the officers standing in the gallery:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.436.1">“My car.</span><span id="kobo.436.2">﻿ ﻿… And tell them to get ready.</span><span id="kobo.436.3">﻿ ﻿… We’re starting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.437.1">He stopped, watched Lupin for a moment and, going up to the count:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">“You too, Waldemar, be off﻿ ﻿… Straight to Paris, without a break﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">Lupin pricked up his ears. </span><span id="kobo.439.2">He heard Waldemar reply:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.440.1">“I should like to have a dozen additional guards.</span><span id="kobo.440.2">﻿ ﻿… With that devil of a man.</span><span id="kobo.440.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.441.1">“Take them. </span><span id="kobo.441.2">And look sharp. </span><span id="kobo.441.3">You must get there tonight.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">Lupin stamped his foot violently on the floor:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“Well, no, Sire! </span><span id="kobo.443.2">No, no, no! </span><span id="kobo.443.3">It shan’t be, I swear it shan’t! </span><span id="kobo.443.4">No, no never!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.444.1">“What do you mean?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">“And the letters, Sire? </span><span id="kobo.445.2">The stolen letters?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">“Upon my word!</span><span id="kobo.446.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">“So!” </span><span id="kobo.447.2">cried Lupin, indignantly folding his arms. </span><span id="kobo.447.3">“So your Imperial Majesty gives up the struggle? </span><span id="kobo.447.4">You look upon the defeat as irretrievable? </span><span id="kobo.447.5">You declare yourself beaten? </span><span id="kobo.447.6">Well, I do not, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.447.7">I have begun and I mean to finish.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.448.1">The Emperor smiled at this display of mettle:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.449.1">“I do not give up, but my police will set to work.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">Lupin burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.451.1">“Excuse me, Sire! </span><span id="kobo.451.2">It is so funny! </span><span id="kobo.451.3">Your police! </span><span id="kobo.451.4">Your Imperial Majesty’s police! </span><span id="kobo.451.5">Why, they’re worth just about as much as any other police, that is to say, nothing, nothing at all! </span><span id="kobo.451.6">No, Sire, I will not return to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.451.7">Santé</span><span id="kobo.452.1">! </span><span id="kobo.452.2">Prison I can afford to laugh at. </span><span id="kobo.452.3">But time enough has been wasted as it is. </span><span id="kobo.452.4">I need my freedom against that man and I mean to keep it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.454.1">The Emperor shrugged his shoulders:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.455.1">“You don’t even know who the man is.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.456.1">“I shall know, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.456.2">And I alone can know. </span><span id="kobo.456.3">And he knows that I am the only one who can know. </span><span id="kobo.456.4">I am his only enemy. </span><span id="kobo.456.5">I am the only one whom he attacks. </span><span id="kobo.456.6">It was I whom he meant to hit, the other day, when he fired his revolver. </span><span id="kobo.456.7">He considered it enough to put me and me only to sleep, last night, to be free to do as he pleased. </span><span id="kobo.456.8">The fight lies between him and me. </span><span id="kobo.456.9">The outside world has nothing to say to it. </span><span id="kobo.456.10">No one can help me and no one can help him. </span><span id="kobo.456.11">There are two of us; and that is all. </span><span id="kobo.456.12">So far, chance has favored him. </span><span id="kobo.456.13">But, in the long run, it is inevitable, it is doomed that I should gain the day.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.457.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.458.1">“Because I am the better man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">“Suppose he kills you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.460.1">“He will not kill me. </span><span id="kobo.460.2">I shall draw his claws, I shall make him perfectly harmless. </span><span id="kobo.460.3">And you shall have the letters, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.460.4">They are yours. </span><span id="kobo.460.5">There is no power on earth than can prevent me from restoring them to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.461.1">He spoke with a violent conviction and a tone of certainty that gave to the things which he foretold the real appearance of things already accomplished.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.462.1">The Emperor could not help undergoing a vague, inexplicable feeling in which there was a sort of admiration combined with a good deal of that confidence which Lupin was demanding in so masterful a manner. </span><span id="kobo.462.2">In reality, he was hesitating only because of his scruples against employing this man and making him, so to speak, his ally. </span><span id="kobo.462.3">And, anxiously, not knowing what decision to take, he walked from the gallery to the windows without saying a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.463.1">At last, he asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.464.1">“And who says that the letters were stolen last night?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.465.1">“The theft is dated, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.466.1">“What do you say?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.467.1">“Look at the inner side of the pediment which concealed the hiding-place. </span><span id="kobo.467.2">The date is written in white chalk: </span><span id="kobo.467.3">‘Midnight, 24 August.’</span><span id="kobo.467.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.468.1">“So it is,” muttered the Emperor, nonplussed. </span><span id="kobo.468.2">“How was it that I did not see?” </span><span id="kobo.468.3">And he added, betraying his curiosity, “Just as with those two ‘N’s’ painted on the wall.</span><span id="kobo.468.4">﻿ ﻿… I can’t understand. </span><span id="kobo.468.5">This is the Minerva Room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">“This is the room in which Napoleon, the Emperor of the French slept,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.470.1">“How do you know?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.471.1">“Ask Waldemar, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.471.2">As for myself, when I was turning over the old servants’ diary, it came upon me as a flash of light. </span><span id="kobo.471.3">I understood that Shears and I had been on the wrong scent. </span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.471.4">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.472.1">, the imperfect word written by the Grand-duke Hermann on his deathbed, is a contraction not of Apollon, but of Napoleon.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.474.1">“That’s true﻿ ﻿… you are right,” said the Emperor. </span><span id="kobo.474.2">“The same letters occur in both words and in the same order. </span><span id="kobo.474.3">The grand-duke evidently meant to write ‘Napoleon.’ </span><span id="kobo.474.4">But that figure 813?</span><span id="kobo.474.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.475.1">“Ah, that was the point that gave me most trouble. </span><span id="kobo.475.2">I always had an idea that we must add up the three figures 8, 1 and 3; and the number 12, thus obtained, seemed to me at once to apply to this room, which is the twelfth leading out of the gallery. </span><span id="kobo.475.3">But that was not enough for me. </span><span id="kobo.475.4">There must be something else, something which my enfeebled brain could not succeed in translating into words. </span><span id="kobo.475.5">The sight of that clock, situated precisely in the Napoleon Room, was a revelation to me. </span><span id="kobo.475.6">The number 12 evidently meant twelve o’clock. </span><span id="kobo.475.7">The hour of noon! </span><span id="kobo.475.8">The hour of midnight! </span><span id="kobo.475.9">Is this not the solemn moment which a man most readily selects? </span><span id="kobo.475.10">But why those three figures 8, 1 and 3, rather than any others which would have given the same total?</span><span id="kobo.475.11">﻿ ﻿… It was then that I thought of making the clock strike for the first time, by way of experiment. </span><span id="kobo.475.12">And it was while making it strike that I saw the dots of the first, third and eighth hour were movable and that they alone were movable. </span><span id="kobo.475.13">I therefore obtained three figures, 1, 3 and 8, which, placed in a more prophetic order, gave the number 813. </span><span id="kobo.475.14">Waldemar pushed the three dots, the spring was released and Your Imperial Majesty knows the result.</span><span id="kobo.475.15">﻿ ﻿… This, Sire, is the explanation of that mysterious word and of those three figures 8, 1, 3 which the grand-duke wrote with his dying hand and by the aid of which he hoped that his son would one day recover the secret of Veldenz and become the possessor of the famous letters which he had hidden there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.476.1">The Emperor listened with eager attention, more and more surprised at the ingenuity, perspicacity, shrewdness and intelligent will which he observed in the man.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.477.1">“Waldemar,” he said, when Lupin had finished.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.478.1">“Sire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.479.1">But, just as he was about to speak, shouts were heard in the gallery outside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.480.1">Waldemar left the room and returned:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.481.1">“It’s the mad girl, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.481.2">They won’t let her pass.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.482.1">“Let her come in,” cried Lupin, eagerly. </span><span id="kobo.482.2">“She must come in, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.483.1">At a sign from the Emperor, Waldemar went out to fetch Isilda.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.484.1">Her entrance caused a general stupefaction. </span><span id="kobo.484.2">Her pale face was covered with dark blotches. </span><span id="kobo.484.3">Her distorted features bore signs of the keenest suffering. </span><span id="kobo.484.4">She panted for breath, with her two hands clutched against her breast.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.485.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.485.2">cried Lupin, struck with horror.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.486.1">“What is it?” </span><span id="kobo.486.2">asked the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.487.1">“Your doctor, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.487.2">There is not a moment to lose.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.488.1">He went up to her:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.489.1">“Speak, Isilda.</span><span id="kobo.489.2">﻿ ﻿… Have you seen anything? </span><span id="kobo.489.3">Have you anything to say?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.490.1">The girl had stopped; her eyes were less vacant, as though lighted up by the pain. </span><span id="kobo.490.2">She uttered sounds﻿ ﻿… but not a word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.491.1">“Listen,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.491.2">“Answer yes or no﻿ ﻿… make a movement of the head﻿ ﻿… Have you seen him? </span><span id="kobo.491.3">Do you know where he is?</span><span id="kobo.491.4">﻿ ﻿… You know who he is.</span><span id="kobo.491.5">﻿ ﻿… Listen! </span><span id="kobo.491.6">if you don’t answer.</span><span id="kobo.491.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.492.1">He suppressed a gesture of anger. </span><span id="kobo.492.2">But, suddenly, remembering the experiment of the day before and that she seemed rather to have retained a certain optical memory of the time when she enjoyed her full reason, he wrote on the white wall a capital “L” and “M.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.493.1">She stretched out her arm toward the letters and nodded her head as though in assent.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.494.1">“And then?” </span><span id="kobo.494.2">said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.494.3">“What then?</span><span id="kobo.494.4">﻿ ﻿… Write something yourself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.495.1">But she gave a fearful scream and flung herself to the ground, yelling.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.496.1">Then, suddenly, came silence, immobility. </span><span id="kobo.496.2">One last convulsive spasm. </span><span id="kobo.496.3">And she moved no more.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.497.1">“Dead?” </span><span id="kobo.497.2">asked the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.498.1">“Poisoned, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.499.1">“Oh, the poor thing!</span><span id="kobo.499.2">﻿ ﻿… And by whom?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.500.1">“By ‘him,’ Sire. </span><span id="kobo.500.2">She knew him, no doubt. </span><span id="kobo.500.3">He must have been afraid of what she might tell.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.501.1">The doctor arrived. </span><span id="kobo.501.2">The Emperor pointed to the girl. </span><span id="kobo.501.3">Then, addressing Waldemar:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.502.1">“All your men to turn out﻿ ﻿… Make them go through the houses﻿ ﻿… telegraph to the stations on the frontier.</span><span id="kobo.502.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.503.1">He went up to Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.504.1">“How long do you want to recover the letters?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.505.1">“A month, Sire﻿ ﻿… two months at most.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.506.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.506.2">Waldemar will wait for you here. </span><span id="kobo.506.3">He shall have my orders and full powers to grant you anything you wish.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.507.1">“What I should like, Sire, is my freedom.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.508.1">“You are free.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.509.1">Lupin watched him walk away and said, between his teeth:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.510.1">“My freedom first.</span><span id="kobo.510.2">﻿ ﻿… And afterward, when I have given you back the letters, O Majesty, one little shake of the hand! </span><span id="kobo.510.3">Then we shall be quits!</span><span id="kobo.510.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>