<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>IX: “Santé Palace”</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-9" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">IX</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.2.2" class="kobospan">Santé</span><span id="kobo.3.1" class="kobospan"> Palace”</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.6.1">There was one wild burst of laughter over the whole face of the world.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">True, the capture of Arsène Lupin made a big sensation; and the public did not grudge the police the praise which they deserved for this revenge so long hoped-for and now so fully obtained. </span><span id="kobo.7.2">The great adventurer was caught. </span><span id="kobo.7.3">That extraordinary, genial, invisible hero was shivering, like any ordinary criminal, between the four walls of a prison cell, crushed in his turn by that formidable power which is called the law and which, sooner or later, by inevitable necessity shatters the obstacles opposed to it and destroys the work of its adversaries.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">All this was said, printed, repeated and discussed </span><i lang="la" xml:lang="la" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.8.2">ad nauseam</span></i><span id="kobo.9.1">. </span><span id="kobo.9.2">The prefect of police was created a commander, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.10.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.11.1"> Weber an officer of the Legion of Honor. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">The skill and courage of their humblest coadjutors were extolled to the skies. </span><span id="kobo.11.3">Cheers were raised and paeans of victory struck up. </span><span id="kobo.11.4">Articles were written and speeches made.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">Very well. </span><span id="kobo.13.2">But one thing, nevertheless, rose above the wonderful concert of praise, these noisy demonstrations of satisfaction; and that was an immense, spontaneous, inextinguishable and tumultuous roar of laughter.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">Arsène Lupin had been chief of the detective-service for four years!</span><span id="kobo.14.2">!</span><span id="kobo.14.3">!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">He had been chief detective for four years and, really, legally, he was chief detective still, with all the rights which the title confers, enjoying the esteem of his chiefs, the favor of the government and the admiration of the public.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">For four years, the public peace and the defence of property had been entrusted to Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.16.2">He saw that the law was carried out. </span><span id="kobo.16.3">He protected the innocent and pursued the guilty.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">And what services he had rendered! </span><span id="kobo.17.2">Never was order less disturbed, never was crime discovered with greater certainty and rapidity. </span><span id="kobo.17.3">The reader need but take back his mind to the Denizou case, the robbery at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.17.4">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.18.1">, the attack on the Orléans express, the murder of Baron Dorf, forming a series of unforeseen and overwhelming triumphs, of magnificent feats of prowess fit to compare with the most famous victories of the most renowned detectives.</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.19.1">6</span></a></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">Not so very long before, in a speech delivered at the time of the fire at the Louvre and the capture of the incendiaries, Valenglay, the prime minister, had said, speaking in defence of the somewhat arbitrary manner in which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.21.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.22.1"> Lenormand had acted on that occasion:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“With his great powers of discernment, his energy, his qualities of decision and execution, his unexpected methods, his inexhaustible resources, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.24.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.25.1"> Lenormand reminds us of the only man who, if he were still alive, could hope to hold his own against him: </span><span id="kobo.25.2">I mean Arsène Lupin. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.26.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.27.1"> Lenormand is an Arsène Lupin in the service of society.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">And, lo and behold, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.29.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.30.1"> Lenormand was none other than Arsène Lupin!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">That he was a Russian prince, who cared! </span><span id="kobo.32.2">Lupin was an old hand at such changes of personality as that. </span><span id="kobo.32.3">But chief detective! </span><span id="kobo.32.4">What a delicious irony! </span><span id="kobo.32.5">What a whimsical humor in the conduct of that extraordinary life!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.33.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.34.1"> Lenormand!</span><span id="kobo.34.2">﻿ ﻿… Arsène Lupin!</span><span id="kobo.34.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">People were now able to explain to themselves the apparently miraculous feats of intelligence which had quite recently bewildered the crowd and baffled the police. </span><span id="kobo.36.2">They understood how his accomplice had been juggled away in the middle of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.36.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.37.1"> itself, in broad daylight and on the appointed day. </span><span id="kobo.37.2">Had he himself not said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“My process is so ingenious and so simple.</span><span id="kobo.39.2">﻿ ﻿… How surprised people will be on the day when I am free to speak! </span><span id="kobo.39.3">‘Is that all?’ </span><span id="kobo.39.4">I shall be asked. </span><span id="kobo.39.5">That is all; but it had to be thought of.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">It was, indeed, childishly simple: </span><span id="kobo.40.2">all you had to do was to be chief of the detective-service.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">Well, Lupin was chief of the detective-service; and every police-officer obeying his orders had made himself the involuntary and unconscious accomplice of Arsène Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">What a comedy! </span><span id="kobo.42.2">What admirable bluff! </span><span id="kobo.42.3">It was the monumental and consoling farce of these drab times of ours. </span><span id="kobo.42.4">Lupin in prison, Lupin irretrievably conquered was, in spite of himself, the great conqueror. </span><span id="kobo.42.5">From his cell he shone over Paris. </span><span id="kobo.42.6">He was more than ever the idol, more than ever the master.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.44.1">When Arsène Lupin awoke next morning, in his room at the “</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.44.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.45.1"> Palace,” as he at once nicknamed it, he had a very clear vision of the enormous sensation which would be produced by his arrest under the double name of Sernine and Lenormand and the double title of prince and chief of the detective-service.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">He rubbed his hands and gave vent to his thoughts:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“A man can have no better companion in his loneliness than the approval of his contemporaries. </span><span id="kobo.48.2">O fame! </span><span id="kobo.48.3">The sun of all living men!</span><span id="kobo.48.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">Seen by daylight, his cell pleased him even better than at night. </span><span id="kobo.49.2">The window, placed high up in the wall, afforded a glimpse of the branches of a tree, through which peeped the blue of the sky above. </span><span id="kobo.49.3">The walls were white. </span><span id="kobo.49.4">There was only one table and one chair, both fastened to the floor. </span><span id="kobo.49.5">But everything was quite nice and clean.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“Come,” he said, “a little rest-cure here will be rather charming.</span><span id="kobo.50.2">﻿ ﻿… But let us see to our toilet.</span><span id="kobo.50.3">﻿ ﻿… Have I all I want?</span><span id="kobo.50.4">﻿ ﻿… No.</span><span id="kobo.50.5">﻿ ﻿… In that case, ring twice for the chambermaid.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">He pressed the button of an apparatus beside the door, which released a signaling-disc in the corridor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">After a moment, bolts and bars were drawn outside, a key turned in the lock and a warder appeared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“Hot water, please,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">The other looked at him with an air of mingled amazement and rage.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“Oh,” said Lupin, “and a bath-towel! </span><span id="kobo.55.2">By Jove, there’s no bath-towel!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">The man growled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“You’re getting at me, aren’t you? </span><span id="kobo.57.2">You’d better be careful!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">He was going away, when Lupin caught him roughly by the arm:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Here! </span><span id="kobo.59.2">A hundred francs if you’ll post a letter for me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">He took out a hundred-franc note, which he had concealed during the search, and offered it to him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Where’s the letter?” </span><span id="kobo.61.2">said the warder, taking the money.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Just give me a moment to write it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">He sat down at the table, scribbled a few words in pencil on a sheet of paper, put it in an envelope and addressed the letter:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.64.1">“To Monsieur </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.64.2">S. </span><span id="kobo.64.3">B.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.65.1"> 42,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">“Poste Restante,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“Paris.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">The warder took the letter and walked away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“That letter,” said Lupin to himself, “will reach destination as safely as if I delivered it myself. </span><span id="kobo.71.2">I shall have the reply in an hour at latest: </span><span id="kobo.71.3">just the time I want to take a good look into my position.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">He sat down on his chair and, in an undertone, summed up the situation as follows:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“When all is said and done, I have two adversaries to fight at the present moment. </span><span id="kobo.73.2">There is, first, society, which holds me and which I can afford to laugh at. </span><span id="kobo.73.3">Secondly, there is a person unknown, who does not hold me, but whom I am not inclined to laugh at in the very least. </span><span id="kobo.73.4">It is he who told the police that I was Sernine. </span><span id="kobo.73.5">It was he who guessed that I was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.73.6">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.74.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.74.2">It was he who locked the door of the underground passage and it was he who had me clapped into prison.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">Arsène Lupin reflected for a second and then continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“So, at long last, the struggle lies between him and me. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">And, to keep up that struggle, that is to say, to discover and get to the bottom of the Kesselbach case, here am I, a prisoner, while he is free, unknown, and inaccessible, and holds the two trump-cards which I considered mine: </span><span id="kobo.77.3">Pierre Leduc and old Steinweg.</span><span id="kobo.77.4">﻿ ﻿… In short, he is near the goal, after finally pushing me back.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">A fresh contemplative pause, followed by a fresh soliloquy:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“The position is far from brilliant. </span><span id="kobo.79.2">On the one side, everything; on the other, nothing. </span><span id="kobo.79.3">Opposite me, a man of my own strength, or stronger, because he has not the same scruples that hamper me. </span><span id="kobo.79.4">And I am without weapons to attack him with.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">He repeated the last sentence several times, in a mechanical voice, and then stopped and, taking his forehead between his hands, sat for a long time wrapped in thought.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“Come in, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.81.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.82.1"> Governor,” he said, seeing the door open.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">“Were you expecting me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“Why, I wrote to you, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.85.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.86.1"> Governor, asking you to come! </span><span id="kobo.86.2">I felt certain that the warder would give you my letter. </span><span id="kobo.86.3">I was so certain of it that I put your initials, </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.87.1">S. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">B.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.88.1">, and your age, forty-two, on the envelope!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">The governor’s name, in point of fact, was Stanislas Borély, and he was forty-two years of age. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">He was a pleasant-looking man, with a very gentle character, who treated the prisoners with all the indulgence possible.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">He said to Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">“Your opinion of my subordinate’s integrity was quite correct. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">Here is your money. </span><span id="kobo.92.3">It shall be handed to you at your release.</span><span id="kobo.92.4">﻿ ﻿… You will now go through the searching-room again.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">Lupin went with </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.93.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.94.1"> Borély to the little room reserved for this purpose, undressed and, while his clothes were inspected with justifiable suspicion, himself underwent a most fastidious examination.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">He was then taken back to his cell and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.96.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.97.1"> Borély said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“I feel easier. </span><span id="kobo.99.2">That’s done.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“And very well done, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.100.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.101.1"> Governor. </span><span id="kobo.101.2">Your men perform this sort of duty with a delicacy for which I should like to thank them by giving them a small token of my satisfaction.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">He handed a hundred-franc note to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.103.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.104.1"> Borély, who jumped as though he had been shot:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“Oh!</span><span id="kobo.106.2">﻿ ﻿… But﻿ ﻿… where does that come from?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">“No need to rack your brains, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.107.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.108.1"> Governor. </span><span id="kobo.108.2">A man like myself, leading the life that I do, is always prepared for any eventuality: </span><span id="kobo.108.3">and no mishap, however painful﻿—not even imprisonment﻿—can take him unawares.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">Seizing the middle finger of his left hand between the thumb and forefinger of the right, he pulled it off smartly and presented it calmly to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.110.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.111.1"> Borély:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“Don’t start like that, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.113.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.114.1"> Governor. </span><span id="kobo.114.2">This is not my finger, but just a tube, made of gold-beater’s skin and cleverly colored, which fits exactly over my middle finger and gives the illusion of a real finger.” </span><span id="kobo.114.3">And he added, with a laugh, “In such a way, of course, as to conceal a third hundred-franc note.</span><span id="kobo.114.4">﻿ ﻿… What is a poor man to do? </span><span id="kobo.114.5">He must carry the best purse he can﻿ ﻿… and must needs make use of it on occasions.</span><span id="kobo.114.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">He stopped at the sight of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.116.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.117.1"> Borély’s startled face:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“Please don’t think, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.119.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.120.1"> Governor, that I wish to dazzle you with my little parlor-tricks. </span><span id="kobo.120.2">I only wanted to show you that you have to do with a﻿ ﻿… client of a rather﻿ ﻿… special nature and to tell you that you must not be surprised if I venture, now and again, to break the ordinary rules and regulations of your establishment.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">The governor had recovered himself. </span><span id="kobo.122.2">He said plainly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“I prefer to think that you will conform to the rules and not compel me to resort to harsh measures.</span><span id="kobo.123.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“Which you would regret to have to enforce: </span><span id="kobo.124.2">isn’t that it, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.124.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.125.1"> Governor? </span><span id="kobo.125.2">That’s just what I should like to spare you, by proving to you in advance that they would not prevent me from doing as I please: </span><span id="kobo.125.3">from corresponding with my friends, from defending the grave interests confided to me outside these walls, from writing to the newspapers that accept my inspiration, from pursuing the fulfilment of my plans and, lastly, from preparing my escape.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“Your escape!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">Lupin began to laugh heartily:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“But think, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.129.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.130.1"> Governor, my only excuse for being in prison is﻿ ﻿… to leave it!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">The argument did not appear to satisfy </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.132.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.133.1"> Borély. </span><span id="kobo.133.2">He made an effort to laugh in his turn:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.135.1">“Forewarned is forearmed,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“That’s what I wanted,” Lupin replied. </span><span id="kobo.136.2">“Take all your precautions, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.136.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.137.1"> Governor, neglect nothing, so that later they may have nothing to reproach you with. </span><span id="kobo.137.2">On the other hand, I shall arrange things in such a way that, whatever annoyance you may have to bear in consequence of my escape, your career, at least, shall not suffer. </span><span id="kobo.137.3">That is all I had to say to you, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.138.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.139.1"> Governor. </span><span id="kobo.139.2">You can go.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">And, while </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.141.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.142.1"> Borély walked away, greatly perturbed by his singular charge and very anxious about the events in preparation, the prisoner threw himself on his bed, muttering:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.144.1">“What cheek, Lupin, old fellow, what cheek! </span><span id="kobo.144.2">Really, anyone would think that you had some idea as to how you were going to get out of this!”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.146.1">The </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.146.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.147.1"> prison is built on the star plan. </span><span id="kobo.147.2">In the centre of the main portion is a round hall, upon which all the corridors converge, so that no prisoner is able to leave his cell without being at once perceived by the overseers posted in the glass box which occupies the middle of that central hall.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">The thing that most surprises the visitor who goes over the prison is that, at every moment, he will meet prisoners without a guard of any kind, who seem to move about as though they were absolutely free. </span><span id="kobo.149.2">In reality, in order to go from one point to another﻿—for instance, from their cell to the van waiting in the yard to take them to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.149.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.150.1"> for the magistrate’s examination﻿—they pass along straight lines each of which ends in a door that is opened to them by a warder. </span><span id="kobo.150.2">The sole duty of the warder is to open and shut this door and to watch the two straight lines which it commands. </span><span id="kobo.150.3">And thus the prisoners, while apparently at liberty to come and go as they please, are sent from door to door, from eye to eye, like so many parcels passed from hand to hand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">Outside, municipal guards receive the object and pack it into one of the compartments of the “salad-basket.”</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.152.2">7</span></a></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">This is the ordinary routine.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.155.1">In Lupin’s case it was disregarded entirely. </span><span id="kobo.155.2">The police were afraid of that walk along the corridors. </span><span id="kobo.155.3">They were afraid of the prison-van. </span><span id="kobo.155.4">They were afraid of everything.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.156.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.157.1"> Weber came in person, accompanied by twelve constables﻿—the best he had, picked men, armed to the teeth﻿—fetched the formidable prisoner at the door of his cell and took him in a cab, the driver of which was one of his own men, with mounted municipal guards trotting on each side, in front and behind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.159.1">“Bravo!” </span><span id="kobo.159.2">cried Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.159.3">“I am quite touched by the compliment paid me. </span><span id="kobo.159.4">A guard of honor. </span><span id="kobo.159.5">By Jove, Weber, you have the proper hierarchical instinct! </span><span id="kobo.159.6">You don’t forget what is due to your immediate chief.” </span><span id="kobo.159.7">And, tapping him on the shoulder: </span><span id="kobo.159.8">“Weber, I intend to send in my resignation. </span><span id="kobo.159.9">I shall name you as my successor.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“It’s almost done,” said Weber.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“That’s good news! </span><span id="kobo.161.2">I was a little anxious about my escape. </span><span id="kobo.161.3">Now I am easy in my mind. </span><span id="kobo.161.4">From the moment when Weber is chief of the detective-service﻿ ﻿… !”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.162.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.163.1"> Weber did not reply to the gibe. </span><span id="kobo.163.2">At heart, he had a queer, complex feeling in the presence of his adversary, a feeling made up of the fear with which Lupin inspired him, the deference which he entertained for Prince Sernine and the respectful admiration which he had always shown to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.164.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.165.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.165.2">All this was mingled with spite, envy and satisfied hatred.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.167.1">They arrived at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.167.2">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.168.1">. </span><span id="kobo.168.2">At the foot of the “mousetrap,” a number of detectives were waiting, among whom </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.169.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.170.1"> Weber rejoiced to see his best two lieutenants, the brothers Doudeville.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">“Has </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.172.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.173.1"> Formerie come?” </span><span id="kobo.173.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">“Yes, chief, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.175.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.176.1"> is in his room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.178.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.179.1"> Weber went up the stairs, followed by Lupin, who had the Doudevilles on either side of him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“Geneviève?” </span><span id="kobo.181.2">whispered the prisoner.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">“Saved.</span><span id="kobo.182.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.183.1">“Where is she?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">“With her grandmother.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.185.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.186.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“In Paris, at the Bristol.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">“Suzanne?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“Disappeared.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“Steinweg?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">“Released.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“What has he told you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">“Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.194.2">Won’t make any revelations except to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">“We told him he owed his release to you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Newspapers good this morning?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">“Excellent.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">“Good. </span><span id="kobo.199.2">If you want to write to me, here are my instructions.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">They had reached the inner corridor on the first floor and Lupin slipped a pellet of paper into the hand of one of the brothers.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.202.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.203.1"> Formerie uttered a delicious phrase when Lupin entered his room accompanied by the deputy-chief:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">“Ah, there you are! </span><span id="kobo.205.2">I knew we should lay hands on you some day or other!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">“So did I, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.206.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.207.1">,” said Lupin, “and I am glad that you have been marked out by fate to do justice to the honest man that I am.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">“He’s getting at me,” thought </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.209.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.210.1"> Formerie. </span><span id="kobo.210.2">And, in the same ironical and serious tone as Lupin, he retorted, “The honest man that you are, sir, will be asked what he has to say about three hundred and forty-four separate cases of larceny, burglary, swindling and forgery, blackmail, receiving and so on. </span><span id="kobo.210.3">Three hundred and forty-four!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“What! </span><span id="kobo.212.2">Is that all?” </span><span id="kobo.212.3">cried Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.212.4">“I really feel quite ashamed.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“Don’t distress yourself! </span><span id="kobo.213.2">I shall discover more. </span><span id="kobo.213.3">But let us proceed in order. </span><span id="kobo.213.4">Arsène Lupin, in spite of all our inquiries, we have no definite information as to your real name.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“How odd! </span><span id="kobo.214.2">No more have I!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“We are not even in a position to declare that you are the same Arsène Lupin who was confined in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.215.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.216.1"> a few years back, and from there made his first escape.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“ ‘His first escape’ is good, and does you credit.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">“It so happens, in fact,” continued </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.219.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.220.1"> Formerie, “that the Arsène Lupin card in the measuring department gives a description of Arsène Lupin which differs at all points from your real description.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“How more and more odd!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“Different marks, different measurements, different fingerprints.</span><span id="kobo.223.2">﻿ ﻿… The two photographs even are quite unlike. </span><span id="kobo.223.3">I will therefore ask you to satisfy us as to your exact identity.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“That’s just what I was going to ask you. </span><span id="kobo.224.2">I have lived under so many distinct names that I have ended by forgetting my own. </span><span id="kobo.224.3">I don’t know where I am.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">“So I must enter a refusal to answer?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“An inability.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">“Is this a thought-out plan? </span><span id="kobo.227.2">Am I to expect the same silence in reply to all my questions?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“Very nearly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“And why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">Lupin struck a solemn attitude and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.231.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.232.1"> le Juge d’Instruction</span></span><span id="kobo.234.1">, my life belongs to history. </span><span id="kobo.234.2">You have only to turn over the annals of the past fifteen years and your curiosity will be satisfied. </span><span id="kobo.234.3">So much for my part. </span><span id="kobo.234.4">As to the rest, it does not concern me: </span><span id="kobo.234.5">it is an affair between you and the murderers at the Palace Hotel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“Arsène Lupin, the honest man that you are will have today to explain the murder of Master Altenheim.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“Hullo, this is new! </span><span id="kobo.237.2">Is the idea yours, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.237.3">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.238.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“Exactly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Very clever! </span><span id="kobo.241.2">Upon my word, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.241.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.242.1"> Formerie, you’re getting on!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">“The position in which you were captured leaves no doubt.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">“None at all; only, I will venture to ask you this: </span><span id="kobo.245.2">what sort of wound did Altenheim die of?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“Of a wound in the throat caused by a knife.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“And where is the knife?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“It has not been found.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">“How could it not have been found, if I had been the assassin, considering that I was captured beside the very man whom I am supposed to have killed?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">“Who killed him, according to you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“The same man that killed </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.251.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.252.1"> Kesselbach, Chapman, and Beudot. </span><span id="kobo.252.2">The nature of the wound is a sufficient proof.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“How did he get away?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“Through a trap-door, which you will discover in the room where the tragedy took place.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.256.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.257.1"> Formerie assumed an air of slyness:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“And how was it that you did not follow that useful example?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">“I tried to follow it. </span><span id="kobo.260.2">But the outlet was blocked by a door which I could not open. </span><span id="kobo.260.3">It was during this attempt that ‘the other one’ came back to the room and killed his accomplice for fear of the revelations which he would have been sure to make. </span><span id="kobo.260.4">At the same time, he hid in a cupboard, where it was subsequently found, the parcel of clothes which I had prepared.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“What were those clothes for?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">“To disguise myself. </span><span id="kobo.262.2">When I went to the Glycines my plan was this: </span><span id="kobo.262.3">to hand Altenheim over to the police, to suppress my own identity as Prince Sernine and to reappear under the features.</span><span id="kobo.262.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.263.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.264.1"> Lenormand, I suppose?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“Exactly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“What!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.269.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.270.1"> Formerie gave a knowing smile and wagged his forefinger from left to right and right to left:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.272.1">“No,” he repeated.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.273.1">“What do you mean by ‘no’?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“That story about </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.274.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.275.1"> Lenormand.</span><span id="kobo.275.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“Will do for the public, my friend. </span><span id="kobo.278.2">But you won’t make </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.278.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.279.1"> Formerie swallow that Lupin and Lenormand were one and the same man.” </span><span id="kobo.279.2">He burst out laughing. </span><span id="kobo.279.3">“Lupin, chief of the detective-service! </span><span id="kobo.279.4">No, anything you like, but not that!</span><span id="kobo.279.5">﻿ ﻿… There are limits.</span><span id="kobo.279.6">﻿ ﻿… I am an easygoing fellow.</span><span id="kobo.279.7">﻿ ﻿… I’ll believe anything﻿ ﻿… but still.</span><span id="kobo.279.8">﻿ ﻿… Come, between ourselves, what was the reason of this fresh hoax?</span><span id="kobo.279.9">﻿ ﻿… I confess I can’t see﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">Lupin looked at him in astonishment. </span><span id="kobo.281.2">In spite of all that he knew of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.281.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.282.1"> Formerie, he could not conceive such a degree of infatuation and blindness. </span><span id="kobo.282.2">There was at that moment only one person in the world who refused to believe in Prince Sernine’s double personality; and that was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.283.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.284.1"> Formerie!</span><span id="kobo.284.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.286.1">Lupin turned to the deputy-chief, who stood listening open-mouthed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.287.1">“My dear Weber, I fear your promotion is not so certain as I thought. </span><span id="kobo.287.2">For, you see, if </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.287.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.288.1"> Lenormand is not myself, then he exists﻿ ﻿… and, if he exists, I have no doubt that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.289.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.290.1"> Formerie, with all his acumen, will end by discovering him﻿ ﻿… in which case﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“We shall discover him all right, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.292.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.293.1"> Lupin,” cried the examining-magistrate. </span><span id="kobo.293.2">“I’ll undertake that, and I tell you that, when you and he are confronted, we shall see some fun.” </span><span id="kobo.293.3">He chuckled and drummed with his fingers on the table. </span><span id="kobo.293.4">“How amusing! </span><span id="kobo.293.5">Oh, one’s never bored when you’re there, that I’ll say for you! </span><span id="kobo.293.6">So you’re </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.294.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.295.1"> Lenormand, and it’s you who arrested your accomplice Marco!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“Just so! </span><span id="kobo.297.2">Wasn’t it my duty to please the prime minister and save the cabinet? </span><span id="kobo.297.3">The fact is historical.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.298.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.299.1"> Formerie held his sides:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“Oh, I shall die of laughing, I know I shall! </span><span id="kobo.301.2">Lord, what a joke! </span><span id="kobo.301.3">That answer will travel round the world. </span><span id="kobo.301.4">So, according to your theory, it was with you that I made the first enquiries at the Palace Hotel after the murder of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.301.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.302.1"> Kesselbach?</span><span id="kobo.302.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.304.1">“Surely it was with me that you investigated the case of the stolen coronet when I was </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.304.2">Duc de Chamerace</span><span id="kobo.305.1">,”</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.306.1">8</span></a><span id="kobo.307.1"> retorted Lupin, in a sarcastic voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.309.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.310.1"> Formerie gave a start. </span><span id="kobo.310.2">All his merriment was dispelled by that odious recollection. </span><span id="kobo.310.3">Turning suddenly grave, he asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“So you persist in that absurd theory?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">“I must, because it is the truth. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">It would be easy for you to take a steamer to Cochin-China and to find at Saigon the proofs of the death of the real </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.313.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.314.1"> Lenormand, the worthy man whom I replaced and whose death-certificate I can show you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“Humbug!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“Upon my word, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.317.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.318.1">, I don’t care one way or the other. </span><span id="kobo.318.2">If it annoys you that I should be </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.319.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.320.1"> Lenormand, don’t let’s talk about it. </span><span id="kobo.320.2">We won’t talk about myself; we won’t talk about anything at all, if you prefer. </span><span id="kobo.320.3">Besides, of what use can it be to you? </span><span id="kobo.320.4">The Kesselbach case is such a tangled affair that I myself don’t know where I stand. </span><span id="kobo.320.5">There’s only one man who might help you. </span><span id="kobo.320.6">I have not succeeded in discovering him. </span><span id="kobo.320.7">And I don’t think that you﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">“What’s the man’s name?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">“He’s an old man, a German called Steinweg.</span><span id="kobo.323.2">﻿ ﻿… But, of course, you’ve heard about him, Weber, and the way in which he was carried off in the middle of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.323.3">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.324.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.326.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.327.1"> Formerie threw an inquiring glance at the deputy-chief. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.328.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.329.1"> Weber said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">“I undertake to bring that person to you, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.331.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.332.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.334.1">“So that’s done,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.334.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.335.1"> Formerie, rising from his chair. </span><span id="kobo.335.2">“As you see, Lupin, this was merely a formal examination to bring the two duelists together. </span><span id="kobo.335.3">Now that we have crossed swords, all that we need is the necessary witness of our fencing-match, your counsel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">“Tut! </span><span id="kobo.337.2">Is it indispensable?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">“Indispensable.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“Employ counsel in view of such an unlikely trial?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“You must.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“In that case, I’ll choose Maître Quimbel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.342.1">“The president of the corporation of the bar. </span><span id="kobo.342.2">You are wise, you will be well defended.”</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.344.1">The first sitting was over. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.344.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.345.1"> Weber led the prisoner away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.347.1">As he went down the stairs of the “mousetrap,” between the two Doudevilles, Lupin said, in short, imperative sentences:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">“Watch Steinweg.</span><span id="kobo.348.2">﻿ ﻿… Don’t let him speak to anybody.</span><span id="kobo.348.3">﻿ ﻿… Be there tomorrow.</span><span id="kobo.348.4">﻿ ﻿… I’ll give you some letters﻿ ﻿… one for you﻿ ﻿… important.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.349.1">Downstairs, he walked up to the municipal guards surrounding the taxicab:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.350.1">“Home, boys,” he exclaimed, “and quick about it! </span><span id="kobo.350.2">I have an appointment with myself for two o’clock precisely.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.351.1">There were no incidents during the drive. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">On returning to his cell, Lupin wrote a long letter, full of detailed instructions, to the brothers Doudeville and, two other letters.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.352.1">One was for Geneviève:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.353.1">“Geneviève, you now know who I am and you will understand why I concealed from you the name of him who twice carried you away in his arms when you were a little girl.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.354.1">“Geneviève, I was your mother’s friend, a distant friend, of whose double life she knew nothing, but upon whom she thought that she could rely. </span><span id="kobo.354.2">And that is why, before dying, she wrote me a few lines asking me to watch over you.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.355.1">“Unworthy as I am of your esteem, Geneviève, I shall continue faithful to that trust. </span><span id="kobo.355.2">Do not drive me from your heart entirely.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.356.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.359.1">The other letter was addressed to Dolores Kesselbach:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.360.1">“Prince Sernine was led to seek </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.360.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.361.1"> Kesselbach’s acquaintance by motives of self-interest alone. </span><span id="kobo.361.2">But a great longing to devote himself to her was the cause of his continuing it.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“Now that Prince Sernine has become merely Arsène Lupin, he begs </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.363.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.364.1"> Kesselbach not to deprive him of the right of protecting her, at a distance and as a man protects one whom he will never see again.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">There were some envelopes on the table. </span><span id="kobo.367.2">He took up one and took up a second; then, when he took up the third, he noticed a sheet of white paper, the presence of which surprised him and which had words stuck upon it, evidently cut out of a newspaper. </span><span id="kobo.367.3">He read:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.368.1">“You have failed in your fight with the baron. </span><span id="kobo.368.2">Give up interesting yourself in the case, and I will not oppose your escape.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.369.1">“</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.369.2">L. </span><span id="kobo.369.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.370.1">”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">Once more, Lupin had that sense of repulsion and terror with which this nameless and fabulous being always inspired him, a sense of disgust which one feels at touching a venomous animal, a reptile:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“He again,” he said. </span><span id="kobo.375.2">“Even here!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">That also scared him, the sudden vision which he at times received of this hostile power, a power as great as his own and disposing of formidable means, the extent of which he himself was unable to realize.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">He at once suspected his warder. </span><span id="kobo.377.2">But how had it been possible to corrupt that hard-featured, stern-eyed man?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.378.1">“Well, so much the better, after all!” </span><span id="kobo.378.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.378.3">“I have never had to do except with dullards.</span><span id="kobo.378.4">﻿ ﻿… In order to fight myself, I had to chuck myself into the command of the detective-service.</span><span id="kobo.378.5">﻿ ﻿… This time, I have someone to deal with!</span><span id="kobo.378.6">﻿ ﻿… Here’s a man who puts me in his pocket﻿ ﻿… by sleight of hand, one might say.</span><span id="kobo.378.7">﻿ ﻿… If I succeed, from my prison cell, in avoiding his blows and smashing him, in seeing old Steinweg and dragging his confession from him, in setting the Kesselbach case on its legs and turning the whole of it into cash, in defending </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.378.8">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.379.1"> Kesselbach and winning fortune and happiness for Geneviève﻿ ﻿… well, then Lupin will be Lupin still!</span><span id="kobo.379.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.381.1">Eleven days passed. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">On the twelfth day, Lupin woke very early and exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.382.1">“Let me see, if my calculations are correct and if the gods are on my side, there will be some news today. </span><span id="kobo.382.2">I have had four interviews with Formerie. </span><span id="kobo.382.3">The fellow must be worked up to the right point now. </span><span id="kobo.382.4">And the Doudevilles, on their side, must have been busy.</span><span id="kobo.382.5">﻿ ﻿… We shall have some fun!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">He flung out his fists to right and left, brought them back to his chest, then flung them out again and brought them back again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">This movement, which executed thirty times in succession, was followed by a bending of his body backwards and forwards. </span><span id="kobo.384.2">Next came an alternate lifting of the legs and then an alternate swinging of the arms.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">The whole performance occupied a quarter of an hour, the quarter of an hour which he devoted every morning to Swedish exercises to keep his muscles in condition.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.386.1">Then he sat down to his table, took up some sheets of white paper, which were arranged in numbered packets, and, folding one of them, made it into an envelope, a work which he continued to do with a series of successive sheets. </span><span id="kobo.386.2">It was the task which he had accepted and which he forced himself to do daily, the prisoners having the right to choose the labor which they preferred: </span><span id="kobo.386.3">sticking envelopes, making paper fans, metal purses, and so on.</span><span id="kobo.386.4">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.387.1">And, in this way, while occupying his hands with an automatic exercise and keeping his muscles supple with mechanical bendings, Lupin was able to have his thoughts constantly fixed on his affairs.</span><span id="kobo.387.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">And his affairs were complicated enough, in all conscience!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.389.1">There was one, for instance, which surpassed all the others in importance, and for which he had to employ all the resources of his genius. </span><span id="kobo.389.2">How was he to have a long, quiet conversation with old Steinweg? </span><span id="kobo.389.3">The necessity was immediate. </span><span id="kobo.389.4">In a few days, Steinweg would have recovered from his imprisonment, would receive interviews, might blab﻿ ﻿… to say nothing of the inevitable interference of the enemy, “the other one.” </span><span id="kobo.389.5">And it was essential that Steinweg’s secret, Pierre Leduc’s secret, should be revealed to no one but Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.389.6">Once published, the secret lost all its value.</span><span id="kobo.389.7">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.390.1">The bolts grated, the key turned noisily in the lock.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.391.1">“Ah, it’s you, most excellent of jailers! </span><span id="kobo.391.2">Has the moment come for the last toilet? </span><span id="kobo.391.3">The haircut that precedes the great final cut of all?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.392.1">“Magistrate’s examination,” said the man, laconically.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.393.1">Lupin walked through the corridors of the prison and was received by the municipal guards, who locked him into the prison-van.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">He reached the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.394.2">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.395.1"> twenty minutes later. </span><span id="kobo.395.2">One of the Doudevilles was waiting near the stairs. </span><span id="kobo.395.3">As they went up, he said to Lupin:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.397.1">“You’ll be confronted today.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.398.1">“Everything settled?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.399.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.400.1">“Weber?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.401.1">“Busy elsewhere.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.402.1">Lupin walked into </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.402.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.403.1"> Formerie’s room and at once recognized old Steinweg, sitting on a chair, looking ill and wretched. </span><span id="kobo.403.2">A municipal guard was standing behind him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.405.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.406.1"> Formerie scrutinized the prisoner attentively, as though he hoped to draw important conclusions from his contemplation of him, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">“You know who this gentleman is?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.409.1">“Why, Steinweg, of course!</span><span id="kobo.409.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.410.1">“Yes, thanks to the active inquiries of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.410.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.411.1"> Weber and of his two officers, the brothers Doudeville, we have found </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.412.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.413.1"> Steinweg, who, according to you, knows the ins and outs of the Kesselbach case, the name of the murderer and all the rest of it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.415.1">“I congratulate you, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.415.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.416.1">. </span><span id="kobo.416.2">Your examination will go swimmingly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.418.1">“I think so. </span><span id="kobo.418.2">There is only one ‘but’: </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.418.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.419.1"> Steinweg refuses to reveal anything, except in your presence.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">“Well, I never! </span><span id="kobo.421.2">How odd of him! </span><span id="kobo.421.3">Does Arsène Lupin inspire him with so much affection and esteem?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.422.1">“Not Arsène Lupin, but Prince Sernine, who, he says, saved his life, and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.422.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.423.1"> Lenormand, with whom, he says, he began a conversation.</span><span id="kobo.423.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.425.1">“At the time when I was chief of the detective-service,” Lupin broke in. </span><span id="kobo.425.2">“So you consent to admit.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.426.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.427.1"> Steinweg,” said the magistrate, “do you recognize </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.428.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.429.1"> Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.431.1">“No, but I know that Arsène Lupin and he are one.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">“So you consent to speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… but﻿ ﻿… we are not alone.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">“How do you mean? </span><span id="kobo.434.2">There is only my clerk here﻿ ﻿… and the guard﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.435.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.435.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.436.1">, the secret which I am about to reveal is so important that you yourself would be sorry﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">“Guard, go outside, please,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.438.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.439.1"> Formerie. </span><span id="kobo.439.2">“Come back at once, if I call. </span><span id="kobo.439.3">Do you object to my clerk, Steinweg?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.441.1">“No, no﻿ ﻿… it might be better﻿ ﻿… but, however﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.442.1">“Then speak. </span><span id="kobo.442.2">For that matter, nothing that you reveal will be put down in black on white. </span><span id="kobo.442.3">One word more, though: </span><span id="kobo.442.4">I ask you for the last time, is it indispensable that the prisoner should be present at this interview?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“Quite indispensable. </span><span id="kobo.443.2">You will see the reason for yourself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.444.1">He drew the chair up to the magistrate’s desk, Lupin remained standing, near the clerk. </span><span id="kobo.444.2">And the old man, speaking in a loud voice, said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">“It is now ten years since a series of circumstances, which I need not enter into, made me acquainted with an extraordinary story in which two persons are concerned.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">“Their names, please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">“I will give the names presently. </span><span id="kobo.447.2">For the moment, let me say that one of these persons occupies an exceptional position in France, and that the other, an Italian, or rather a Spaniard﻿ ﻿… yes, a Spaniard﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.448.1">A bound across the room, followed by two formidable blows of the fist.</span><span id="kobo.448.2">﻿ ﻿… Lupin’s two arms had darted out to right and left, as though impelled by springs and his two fists, hard as cannon balls, caught the magistrate and his clerk on the jaw, just below the ear.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.449.1">The magistrate and the clerk collapsed over their tables, in two lumps, without a moan.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">“Well hit!” </span><span id="kobo.450.2">said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.450.3">“That was a neat bit of work.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.451.1">He went to the door and locked it softly. </span><span id="kobo.451.2">Then returning:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.452.1">“Steinweg, have you the chloroform?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.453.1">“Are you quite sure that they have fainted?” </span><span id="kobo.453.2">asks the old man, trembling with fear.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.454.1">“What do you think! </span><span id="kobo.454.2">But it will only last for three or four minutes.</span><span id="kobo.454.3">﻿ ﻿… And that is not long enough.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.455.1">The German produced from his pocket a bottle and two pads of cotton-wool, ready prepared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.456.1">Lupin uncorked the bottle, poured a few drops of the chloroform on the two pads and held them to the noses of the magistrate and his clerk.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.457.1">“Capital! </span><span id="kobo.457.2">We have ten minutes of peace and quiet before us. </span><span id="kobo.457.3">That will do, but let’s make haste, all the same; and not a word too much, old man, do you hear?” </span><span id="kobo.457.4">He took him by the arm. </span><span id="kobo.457.5">“You see what I am able to do. </span><span id="kobo.457.6">Here we are, alone in the very heart of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.457.7">Palais de Justice</span><span id="kobo.458.1">, because I wished it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.460.1">“Yes,” said the old man.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.461.1">“So you are going to tell me your secret?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.462.1">“Yes, I told it to Kesselbach, because he was rich and could turn it to better account than anybody I knew; but, prisoner and absolutely powerless though you are, I consider you a hundred times as strong as Kesselbach with his hundred millions.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.463.1">“In that case, speak; and let us take things in their proper order. </span><span id="kobo.463.2">The name of the murderer?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.464.1">“That’s impossible.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.465.1">“How do you mean, impossible? </span><span id="kobo.465.2">I thought you knew it and were going to tell me everything!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.466.1">“Everything, but not that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.467.1">“But﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.468.1">“Later on.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">“You’re mad! </span><span id="kobo.469.2">Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.470.1">“I have no proofs. </span><span id="kobo.470.2">Later, when you are free, we will hunt together. </span><span id="kobo.470.3">Besides, what’s the good? </span><span id="kobo.470.4">And then, really, I can’t tell you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.471.1">“You’re afraid of him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.472.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.473.1">“Very well,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.473.2">“After all, that’s not the most urgent matter. </span><span id="kobo.473.3">As to the rest, you’ve made up your mind to speak?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.474.1">“Without reserve.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.475.1">“Well, then, answer. </span><span id="kobo.475.2">Who is Pierre Leduc?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.476.1">“Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.476.2">IV</span><span id="kobo.477.1">, Grand Duke of Zweibrucken-Veldenz, Prince of Berncastel, Count of Fistingen, Lord of Wiesbaden and other places.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.479.1">Lupin felt a thrill of joy at learning that his protégé was definitely not the son of a pork-butcher!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.480.1">“The devil!” </span><span id="kobo.480.2">he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.480.3">“So we have a handle to our name!</span><span id="kobo.480.4">﻿ ﻿… As far as I remember, the Grand-duchy of Zweibrucken-Veldenz is in Prussia?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.481.1">“Yes, on the Moselle. </span><span id="kobo.481.2">The house of Veldenz is a branch of the Palatine house of Zweibrucken. </span><span id="kobo.481.3">The grand-duchy was occupied by the French after the peace of Luneville and formed part of the department of Mont-Tonnerre. </span><span id="kobo.481.4">In 1814, it was restored in favor of Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.481.5">I</span><span id="kobo.482.1">, the great grandfather of Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.482.2">His son, Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.483.1">II</span><span id="kobo.484.1">, spent a riotous youth, ruined himself, squandered the finances of his country and made himself impossible to his subjects, who ended by partly burning the old castle at Veldenz and driving their sovereign out of his dominions. </span><span id="kobo.484.2">The grand-duchy was then administered and governed by three regents, in the name of Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.485.1">II</span><span id="kobo.486.1">, who, by a curious anomaly, did not abdicate, but retained his title as reigning grand-duke. </span><span id="kobo.486.2">He lived, rather short of cash, in Berlin; later, he fought in the French war, by the side of Bismarck, of whom he was a friend. </span><span id="kobo.486.3">He was killed by a shell at the siege of Paris and, in dying, entrusted Bismarck with the charge of his son Hermann, that is, Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.487.1">III</span><span id="kobo.488.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.490.1">“The father, therefore, of our Leduc,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.491.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.491.2">The chancellor took a liking to Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.491.3">III</span><span id="kobo.492.1">, and used often to employ him as a secret envoy to persons of distinction abroad. </span><span id="kobo.492.2">At the fall of his patron Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.493.1">III</span><span id="kobo.494.1">, left Berlin, travelled about and returned and settled in Dresden. </span><span id="kobo.494.2">When Bismarck died, Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.495.1">III</span><span id="kobo.496.1">, was there. </span><span id="kobo.496.2">He himself died two years later. </span><span id="kobo.496.3">These are public facts, known to everybody in Germany; and that is the story of the three Hermanns, Grand-dukes of Zweibrucken-Veldenz in the nineteenth century.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.498.1">“But the fourth, Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.498.2">IV</span><span id="kobo.499.1">, the one in whom we are interested?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.501.1">“We will speak of him presently. </span><span id="kobo.501.2">Let us now pass on to unknown facts.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.502.1">“Facts known to you alone,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.503.1">“To me alone and to a few others.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.504.1">“How do you mean, a few others? </span><span id="kobo.504.2">Hasn’t the secret been kept?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.505.1">“Yes, yes, the secret has been well kept by all who know it. </span><span id="kobo.505.2">Have no fear; it is very much to their interest, I assure you, not to divulge it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.506.1">“Then how do you know it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.507.1">“Through an old servant and private secretary of the Grand-duke Hermann, the last of the name. </span><span id="kobo.507.2">This servant, who died in my arms in South Africa, began by confiding to me that his master was secretly married and had left a son behind him. </span><span id="kobo.507.3">Then he told me the great secret.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.508.1">“The one which you afterwards revealed to Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.509.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.510.1">“One second﻿ ﻿… Will you excuse me?</span><span id="kobo.510.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.511.1">Lupin bent over </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.511.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.512.1"> Formerie, satisfied himself that all was well and the heart beating normally, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.514.1">“Go on.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.515.1">Steinweg resumed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.516.1">“On the evening of the day on which Bismarck died, the Grand-duke Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.516.2">III</span><span id="kobo.517.1"> and his faithful manservant﻿—my South African friend﻿—took a train which brought them to Munich in time to catch the express for Vienna. </span><span id="kobo.517.2">From Vienna, they went to Constantinople, then to Cairo, then to Naples, then to Tunis, then to Spain, then to Paris, then to London, to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.518.1">St.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.519.1"> Petersburg, to Warsaw﻿ ﻿… and in none of these towns did they stop. </span><span id="kobo.519.2">They took a cab, had their two bags put on the top, rushed through the streets, hurried to another station or to the landing-stage, and once more took the train or the steamer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.521.1">“In short, they were being followed and were trying to put their pursuers off the scent,” Arsène Lupin concluded.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.522.1">“One evening, they left the city of Treves, dressed in workmen’s caps and linen jackets, each with a bundle slung over his shoulder at the end of a stick. </span><span id="kobo.522.2">They covered on foot the twenty-two miles to Veldenz, where the old Castle of Zweibrucken stands, or rather the ruins of the old castle.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.523.1">“No descriptions, please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.524.1">“All day long, they remained hidden in a neighboring forest. </span><span id="kobo.524.2">At night, they went up to the old walls. </span><span id="kobo.524.3">Hermann ordered his servant to wait for him and himself scaled the wall at a breach known as the Wolf’s Gap. </span><span id="kobo.524.4">He returned in an hour’s time. </span><span id="kobo.524.5">In the following week, after more peregrinations, he went back home to Dresden. </span><span id="kobo.524.6">The expedition was over.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.525.1">“And what was the object of the expedition?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.526.1">“The grand-duke never breathed a word about it to his servant. </span><span id="kobo.526.2">But certain particulars and the coincidence of facts that ensued enabled the man to build up the truth, at least, in part.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.527.1">“Quick, Steinweg, time is running short now: </span><span id="kobo.527.2">and I am eager to know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.528.1">“A fortnight after the expedition, Count von Waldemar, an officer in the Emperor’s bodyguard and one of his personal friends, called on the grand-duke, accompanied by six men. </span><span id="kobo.528.2">He was there all day, locked up with the grand-duke in his study. </span><span id="kobo.528.3">There were repeated sounds of altercations, of violent disputes. </span><span id="kobo.528.4">One phrase even was overheard by the servant, who was passing through the garden, under the windows: </span><span id="kobo.528.5">‘Those papers were handed to you; His imperial Majesty is sure of it. </span><span id="kobo.528.6">If you refuse to give them to me of your own free will﻿ ﻿…’ The rest of the sentence, the meaning of the threat and, for that matter, the whole scene can be easily guessed by what followed; Hermann’s house was ransacked from top to bottom.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.529.1">“But that is against the law.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.530.1">“It would have been against the law if the grand-duke had objected; but he himself accompanied the count in his search.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.531.1">“And what were they looking for? </span><span id="kobo.531.2">The chancellor’s memoirs?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.532.1">“Something better than that. </span><span id="kobo.532.2">They were looking for a parcel of secret documents which were known to exist, owing to indiscretions that had been committed, and which were known for certain to have been entrusted to the Grand-duke Hermann’s keeping.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.533.1">Lupin muttered, excitedly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.534.1">“Secret documents﻿ ﻿… and very important ones, no doubt?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.535.1">“Of the highest importance. </span><span id="kobo.535.2">The publication of those papers would lead to results which it would be impossible to foresee, not only from the point of view of home politics, but also from that of Germany’s relations with the foreign powers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.536.1">“Oh!” </span><span id="kobo.536.2">said Lupin, throbbing with emotion. </span><span id="kobo.536.3">“Oh, can it be possible? </span><span id="kobo.536.4">What proof have you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.537.1">“What proof? </span><span id="kobo.537.2">The evidence of the grand-duke’s wife, the confidences which she made to the servant after her husband’s death.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.538.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… yes﻿ ﻿…” stammered Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.538.2">“We have the evidence of the grand-duke himself.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.539.1">“Better still,” said Steinweg.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.540.1">“What?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.541.1">“A document, a document written in his own hand, signed by him and containing﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.542.1">“Containing what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.543.1">“A list of the secret papers confided to his charge.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.544.1">“Tell me, in two words.</span><span id="kobo.544.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.545.1">“In two words? </span><span id="kobo.545.2">That can’t be done. </span><span id="kobo.545.3">The document is a very long one, scattered all over with annotations and remarks which are sometimes impossible to understand. </span><span id="kobo.545.4">Let me mention just two titles which obviously refer to two bundles of secret papers: </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.545.5">Original Letters of the Crown Prince to Bismarck</span></i><span id="kobo.546.1"> is one. </span><span id="kobo.546.2">The dates show that these letters were written during the three months of the reign of Frederick </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.547.1">III</span><span id="kobo.548.1">. </span><span id="kobo.548.2">To picture what the letters may contain, you have only to think of the Emperor Frederick’s illness, his quarrels with his son﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.550.1">“Yes, yes, I know.</span><span id="kobo.550.2">﻿ ﻿… And the other title?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.551.1">“</span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.551.2">Photographs of the letters of Frederick </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.551.3">III</span><span id="kobo.552.1">, and the Empress Victoria to the Queen of England</span></i><span id="kobo.554.1">.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.556.1">“Do you mean to say that that’s there?” </span><span id="kobo.556.2">asked Lupin, in a choking voice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.557.1">“Listen to the grand-duke’s notes: </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.557.2">Text of the Treaty with Great Britain and France</span></i><span id="kobo.558.1">. </span><span id="kobo.558.2">And these rather obscure words: </span><span id="kobo.558.3">‘Alsace-Lorraine.</span><span id="kobo.558.4">﻿ ﻿… Colonies.</span><span id="kobo.558.5">﻿ ﻿… Limitation of naval armaments.</span><span id="kobo.558.6">﻿ ﻿…’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.560.1">“It says that?” </span><span id="kobo.560.2">blurted Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.560.3">“And you call that obscure?</span><span id="kobo.560.4">﻿ ﻿… Why, the words are dazzling with light!</span><span id="kobo.560.5">﻿ ﻿… Oh, can it be possible?</span><span id="kobo.560.6">﻿ ﻿… And what next, what next?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.561.1">As he spoke there was a noise at the door. </span><span id="kobo.561.2">Someone was knocking.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.562.1">“You can’t come in,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.562.2">“I am busy.</span><span id="kobo.562.3">﻿ ﻿… Go on, Steinweg.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.563.1">“But﻿ ﻿…” said the old man, in a great state of alarm.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.564.1">The door was shaken violently and Lupin recognized Weber’s voice. </span><span id="kobo.564.2">He shouted:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.565.1">“A little patience, Weber. </span><span id="kobo.565.2">I shall have done in five minutes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.566.1">He gripped the old man’s arm and, in a tone of command:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.567.1">“Be easy and go on with your story. </span><span id="kobo.567.2">So, according to you, the expedition of the grand duke and his servant to Veldenz Castle had no other object than to hide those papers?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.568.1">“There can be no question about that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.569.1">“Very well. </span><span id="kobo.569.2">But the grand-duke may have taken them away since.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.570.1">“No, he did not leave Dresden until his death.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.571.1">“But the grand-duke’s enemies, the men who had everything to gain by recovering them and destroying them: </span><span id="kobo.571.2">can’t they have tried to find out where the papers were?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.572.1">“They have tried.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.573.1">“How do you know?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.574.1">“You can understand that I did not remain inactive and that my first care, after receiving those revelations, was to go to Veldenz and make inquiries for myself in the neighboring villages. </span><span id="kobo.574.2">Well, I learnt that, on two separate occasions, the castle was invaded by a dozen men, who came from Berlin furnished with credentials to the regents.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.575.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.576.1">“Well, they found nothing, for, since that time, the castle has been found closed to the public.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.577.1">“But what prevents anybody from getting in?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.578.1">“A garrison of fifty soldiers, who keep watch day and night.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.579.1">“Soldiers of the grand-duchy?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.580.1">“No, soldiers drafted from the Emperor’s own bodyguard.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.581.1">The din in the passage increased:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.582.1">“Open the door!” </span><span id="kobo.582.2">a voice cried. </span><span id="kobo.582.3">“I order you to open the door!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.583.1">“I can’t. </span><span id="kobo.583.2">Weber, old chap; the lock has stuck. </span><span id="kobo.583.3">If you take my advice, you had better cut the door all round the lock.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.584.1">“Open the door!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.585.1">“And what about the fate of Europe, which we are discussing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.586.1">He turned to the old man:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.587.1">“So you were not able to enter the castle?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.588.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.589.1">“But you are persuaded that the papers in question are hidden there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.590.1">“Look here, haven’t I given you proofs enough? </span><span id="kobo.590.2">Aren’t you convinced?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.591.1">“Yes, yes,” muttered Lupin, “that’s where they are hidden﻿ ﻿… there’s no doubt about it﻿ ﻿… that’s where they are hidden.</span><span id="kobo.591.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.592.1">He seemed to see the castle. </span><span id="kobo.592.2">He seemed to conjure up the mysterious hiding-place. </span><span id="kobo.592.3">And the vision of an inexhaustible treasure, the dream of chests filled with riches and precious stones could not have excited him more than the idea of those few scraps of paper watched over by the Kaiser’s guards. </span><span id="kobo.592.4">What a wonderful conquest to embark upon! </span><span id="kobo.592.5">And how worthy of his powers! </span><span id="kobo.592.6">And what a proof of perspicacity and intuition he had once more given by throwing himself at a venture upon that unknown track!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.593.1">Outside, the men were “working” at the lock.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.594.1">Lupin asked of old Steinweg:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.595.1">“What did the grand-duke die of?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.596.1">“An attack of pleurisy, which carried him off in a few days. </span><span id="kobo.596.2">He hardly recovered consciousness before the end; and the horrible thing appears to have been that he was seen to make violent efforts, between his fits of delirium, to collect his thoughts and utter connected words. </span><span id="kobo.596.3">From time to time, he called his wife, looked at her in a desperate way and vainly moved his lips.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.597.1">“In a word, he spoke?” </span><span id="kobo.597.2">said Lupin, cutting him short, for the “working” at the lock was beginning to make him anxious.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.598.1">“No, he did not speak. </span><span id="kobo.598.2">But, in a comparatively lucid moment, he summoned up the energy to make some marks on a piece of paper which his wife gave him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.599.1">“Well, those marks﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.600.1">“They were illegible, for the most part.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.601.1">“For the most part? </span><span id="kobo.601.2">But the others?” </span><span id="kobo.601.3">asked Lupin, greedily. </span><span id="kobo.601.4">“The others?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.602.1">“There were, first, three perfectly distinct figures: </span><span id="kobo.602.2">an 8, a 1, and a 3.</span><span id="kobo.602.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.603.1">“Yes, 813, I know﻿ ﻿… and next?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.604.1">“And next, there were some letters﻿ ﻿… several letters, of which all that can be made out for certain are a group of three followed, immediately after, by a group of two letters.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.605.1">“ ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.605.2">apo on</span></b><span id="kobo.606.1">,’ is that it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.608.1">“Oh, so you know!</span><span id="kobo.608.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.609.1">The lock was yielding; almost all the screws had been taken out. </span><span id="kobo.609.2">Lupin, suddenly alarmed at the thought of being interrupted, asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.610.1">“So that this incomplete word ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.610.2">apo on</span></b><span id="kobo.611.1">’ and the number 813 are the formulas which the grand-duke bequeathed to his wife and son to enable them to find the secret papers?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.613.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.614.1">“What became of the grand-duke’s wife?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.615.1">“She died soon after her husband, of grief, one might say.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.616.1">“And was the child looked after by the family?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.617.1">“What family? </span><span id="kobo.617.2">The grand-duke had no brothers or sisters. </span><span id="kobo.617.3">Moreover, he was only morganatically and secretly married. </span><span id="kobo.617.4">No, the child was taken away by Hermann’s old manservant, who brought him up under the name of Pierre Leduc. </span><span id="kobo.617.5">He was a bad type of boy, self-willed, capricious and troublesome. </span><span id="kobo.617.6">One day, he went off and was never seen again.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.618.1">“Did he know the secret of his birth?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.619.1">“Yes; and he was shown the sheet of paper on which Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.619.2">III</span><span id="kobo.620.1"> had written the letters and figures.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.622.1">“And after that this revelation was made to no one but yourself?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.623.1">“That’s all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.624.1">“And you confided only in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.624.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.625.1"> Kesselbach?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.627.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.627.2">But, out of prudence, while showing him the sheet of letters and figures and the list of which I spoke to you, I kept both those documents in my own possession. </span><span id="kobo.627.3">Events have proved that I was right.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.628.1">Lupin was now clinging to the door with both hands:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.629.1">“Weber,” he roared, “you’re very indiscreet! </span><span id="kobo.629.2">I shall report you!</span><span id="kobo.629.3">﻿ ﻿… Steinweg, have you those documents?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.630.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.631.1">“Are they in a safe place?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.632.1">“Absolutely.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.633.1">“In Paris?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.634.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.635.1">“So much the better. </span><span id="kobo.635.2">Don’t forget that your life is in danger and that you have people after you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.636.1">“I know. </span><span id="kobo.636.2">The least false step and I am done for.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.637.1">“Exactly. </span><span id="kobo.637.2">So take your precautions, throw the enemy off the scent, go and fetch your papers and await my instructions. </span><span id="kobo.637.3">The thing is cut and dried. </span><span id="kobo.637.4">In a month, at latest, we will go to Veldenz Castle together.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.638.1">“Suppose I’m in prison?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.639.1">“I will take you out.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.640.1">“Can you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.641.1">“The very day after I come out myself. </span><span id="kobo.641.2">No, I’m wrong: </span><span id="kobo.641.3">the same evening﻿ ﻿… an hour later.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.642.1">“You have the means?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.643.1">“Since the last ten minutes, an infallible means. </span><span id="kobo.643.2">You have nothing more to say to me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.644.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.645.1">“Then I’ll open the door.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.646.1">He pulled back the door, and bowing to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.646.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.647.1"> Weber:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.649.1">“My poor old Weber, I don’t know what excuse to make﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.650.1">He did not finish his sentence. </span><span id="kobo.650.2">The sudden inrush of the deputy-chief and three policeman left him no time.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.651.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.652.1"> Weber was white with rage and indignation. </span><span id="kobo.652.2">The sight of the two men lying outstretched quite unsettled him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.654.1">“Dead!” </span><span id="kobo.654.2">he exclaimed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.655.1">“Not a bit of it, not a bit of it,” chuckled Lupin, “only asleep! </span><span id="kobo.655.2">Formerie was tired out﻿ ﻿… so I allowed him a few moments’ rest.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.656.1">“Enough of this humbug!” </span><span id="kobo.656.2">shouted </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.656.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.657.1"> Weber. </span><span id="kobo.657.2">And, turning to the policemen, “Take him back to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.658.1">Santé</span><span id="kobo.659.1">. </span><span id="kobo.659.2">And keep your eyes open, damn it! </span><span id="kobo.659.3">As for this visitor﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.661.1">Lupin learnt nothing more as to Weber’s intentions with regard to old Steinweg. </span><span id="kobo.661.2">A crowd of municipal guards and police constables hustled him down to the prison-van.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.662.1">On the stairs Doudeville whispered:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.663.1">“Weber had a line to warn him. </span><span id="kobo.663.2">It told him to mind the confrontation and to be on his guard with Steinweg. </span><span id="kobo.663.3">The note was signed ‘</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.663.4">L. </span><span id="kobo.663.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.664.1">’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.666.1">But Lupin hardly bothered his head about all this. </span><span id="kobo.666.2">What did he care for the murderer’s hatred or old Steinweg’s fate? </span><span id="kobo.666.3">He possessed Rudolf Kesselbach’s secret!</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>