<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>II: The Blue-Edged Label</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-2" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">II</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Blue-Edged Label</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">“Arsène Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">Gourel repeated these two fateful words with an absolutely petrified air. </span><span id="kobo.5.2">They rang within him like a knell. </span><span id="kobo.5.3">Arsène Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.5.4">The great, the formidable Arsène Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.5.5">The burglar-king, the mighty adventurer! </span><span id="kobo.5.6">Was it possible?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">“No, no,” he muttered, “it’s not possible, </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.6.2">because he’s dead</span></em><span id="kobo.7.1">!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">Only that was just it﻿ ﻿… was he really dead?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">Arsène Lupin!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">Standing beside the corpse, he remained dull and stunned, turning the card over and over with a certain dread, as though he had been challenged by a ghost. </span><span id="kobo.11.2">Arsène Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.11.3">What ought he to do? </span><span id="kobo.11.4">Act? </span><span id="kobo.11.5">Take the field with his resources? </span><span id="kobo.11.6">No, no﻿ ﻿… better not act.</span><span id="kobo.11.7">﻿ ﻿… He was bound to make mistakes if he entered the lists with an adversary of that stamp. </span><span id="kobo.11.8">Besides, the chief was on his way!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.12.1">The chief was on his way!</span></em><span id="kobo.13.1"> All Gourel’s intellectual philosophy was summed up in that short sentence. </span><span id="kobo.13.2">An able, persevering officer, full of courage and experience and endowed with Herculean strength, he was one of those who go ahead only when obeying directions and who do good work only when ordered. </span><span id="kobo.13.3">And this lack of initiative had become still more marked since </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.14.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.15.1"> Lenormand had taken the place of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.16.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.17.1"> Dudouis in the detective-service. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.18.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.19.1"> Lenormand was a chief indeed! </span><span id="kobo.19.2">With him, one was sure of being on the right track. </span><span id="kobo.19.3">So sure, even, that Gourel stopped the moment that the chief’s incentive was no longer behind him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">But the chief was on his way! </span><span id="kobo.21.2">Gourel took out his watch and calculated the exact time when he would arrive. </span><span id="kobo.21.3">If only the commissary of police did not get there first, if only the examining-magistrate, who was no doubt already appointed, or the divisional surgeon, did not come to make inopportune discoveries before the chief had time to fix the essential points of the case in his mind!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“Well, Gourel, what are you dreaming about?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“The chief!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.24.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.25.1"> Lenormand was still a young man, if you took stock only of the expression of his face and his eyes gleaming through his spectacles; but he was almost an old man when you saw his bent back, his skin dry and yellow as wax, his grizzled hair and beard, his whole decrepit, hesitating, unhealthy appearance. </span><span id="kobo.25.2">He had spent his life laboriously in the colonies as government commissary, in the most dangerous posts. </span><span id="kobo.25.3">He had there acquired a series of fevers; an indomitable energy, notwithstanding his physical weariness; the habit of living alone, of talking little and acting in silence; a certain misanthropy; and, suddenly, at the age of fifty-five, in consequence of the famous case of the three Spaniards at Biskra, a great and well-earned notoriety.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">The injustice was then repaired; and he was straightway transferred to Bordeaux, was next appointed deputy in Paris, and lastly, on the death of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.27.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.28.1"> Dudouis, chief of the detective-service. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">And in each of these posts he displayed such a curious faculty of inventiveness in his proceedings, such resourcefulness, so many new and original qualities; and above all, he achieved such correct results in the conduct of the last four or five cases with which public opinion had been stirred, that his name was quoted in the same breath with those of the most celebrated detectives.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">Gourel, for his part, had no hesitation. </span><span id="kobo.30.2">Himself a favourite of the chief, who liked him for his frankness and his passive obedience, he set the chief above them all. </span><span id="kobo.30.3">The chief to him was an idol, an infallible god.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.31.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.32.1"> Lenormand seemed more tired than usual that day. </span><span id="kobo.32.2">He sat down wearily, parted the tails of his frock-coat﻿—an old frock-coat, famous for its antiquated cut and its olive-green hue﻿—untied his neckerchief﻿—an equally famous maroon-coloured neckerchief, rested his two hands on his stick, and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“Speak!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">Gourel told all that he had seen, and all that he had learnt, and told it briefly, according to the habit which the chief had taught him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">But, when he produced Lupin’s card, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.36.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.37.1"> Lenormand gave a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“Yes, Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.40.2">The brute’s bobbed up again.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">“That’s all right, that’s all right,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.41.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.42.1"> Lenormand, after a moment’s thought.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">“That’s all right, of course,” said Gourel, who loved to add a word of his own to the rare speeches of a superior whose only fault in his eyes was an undue reticence. </span><span id="kobo.44.2">“That’s all right, for at last you will measure your strength with an adversary worthy of you.</span><span id="kobo.44.3">﻿ ﻿… And Lupin will meet his master.</span><span id="kobo.44.4">﻿ ﻿… Lupin will cease to exist.</span><span id="kobo.44.5">﻿ ﻿… Lupin﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“Ferret!” </span><span id="kobo.45.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.45.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.46.1"> Lenormand, cutting him short.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">It was like an order given by a sportsman to his dog. </span><span id="kobo.48.2">And Gourel ferreted after the manner of a good dog, a lively and intelligent animal, working under his master’s eyes. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.48.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.49.1"> Lenormand pointed his stick to a corner, to an easy chair, just as one points to a bush or a tuft of grass, and Gourel beat up the bush or the tuft of grass with conscientious thoroughness.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Nothing,” said the sergeant, when he finished.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“Nothing for you!” </span><span id="kobo.52.2">grunted </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.52.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.53.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“That’s what I meant to say.</span><span id="kobo.55.2">﻿ ﻿… I know that, for you, chief, there are things that talk like human beings, real living witnesses. </span><span id="kobo.55.3">For all that, here is a murder well and duly added to our score against Master Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“The first,” observed </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.56.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.57.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“The first, yes.</span><span id="kobo.59.2">﻿ ﻿… But it was bound to come. </span><span id="kobo.59.3">You can’t lead that sort of life without, sooner or later, being driven by circumstances to serious crime. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.59.4">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.60.1"> Kesselbach must have defended himself.</span><span id="kobo.60.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“No, because he was bound.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“That’s true,” owned Gourel, somewhat disconcertedly, “and it’s rather curious too.</span><span id="kobo.63.2">﻿ ﻿… Why kill an adversary who has practically ceased to exist?</span><span id="kobo.63.3">﻿ ﻿… But, no matter, if I had collared him yesterday, when we were face to face at the hall-door﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.64.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.65.1"> Lenormand had stepped out on the balcony. </span><span id="kobo.65.2">Then he went to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.66.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.67.1"> Kesselbach’s bedroom, on the right, and tried the fastenings of the windows and doors.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“The windows of both rooms were shut when I came in,” said Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“Shut, or just pushed to?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“No one has touched them since. </span><span id="kobo.71.2">And they are shut, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">A sound of voices brought them back to the sitting-room. </span><span id="kobo.72.2">Here they found the divisional surgeon, engaged in examining the body, and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.72.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.73.1"> Formerie, the magistrate. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.74.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.75.1"> Formerie exclaimed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“Arsène Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.77.2">I am glad that at last a lucky chance has brought me into touch with that scoundrel again! </span><span id="kobo.77.3">I’ll show the fellow the stuff I’m made of!</span><span id="kobo.77.4">﻿ ﻿… And this time it’s a murder!</span><span id="kobo.77.5">﻿ ﻿… It’s a fight between you and me now, Master Lupin!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.78.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.79.1"> Formerie had not forgotten the strange adventure of the Princesse de Lamballe’s diadem, nor the wonderful way in which Lupin had tricked him a few years before.</span><a class="epub-type-noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref endnote"><span id="kobo.80.1">1</span></a><span id="kobo.81.1"> The thing had remained famous in the annals of the law-courts. </span><span id="kobo.81.2">People still laughed at it; and in </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.82.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.83.1"> Formerie it had left a just feeling of resentment, combined with the longing for a striking revenge.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“The nature of the crime is self-evident,” he declared, with a great air of conviction, “and we shall have no difficulty in discovering the motive. </span><span id="kobo.85.2">So all is well.</span><span id="kobo.85.3">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.85.4">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.86.1"> Lenormand, how do you do?</span><span id="kobo.86.2">﻿ ﻿… I am delighted to see you.</span><span id="kobo.86.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.88.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.89.1"> Formerie was not in the least delighted. </span><span id="kobo.89.2">On the contrary, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.90.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.91.1"> Lenormand’s presence did not please him at all, seeing that the chief detective hardly took the trouble to disguise the contempt in which he held him. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">However, the magistrate drew himself up and, in his most solemn tones:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“So, doctor, you consider that death took place about a dozen hours ago, perhaps more!</span><span id="kobo.93.2">﻿ ﻿… That, in fact, was my own idea.</span><span id="kobo.93.3">﻿ ﻿… We are quite agreed.</span><span id="kobo.93.4">﻿ ﻿… And the instrument of the crime?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">“A knife with a very thin blade, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.94.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.95.1">,” replied the surgeon. </span><span id="kobo.95.2">“Look, the blade has been wiped on the dead man’s own handkerchief.</span><span id="kobo.95.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">“Just so﻿ ﻿… just so﻿ ﻿… you can see the mark.</span><span id="kobo.97.2">﻿ ﻿… And now let us go and question </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.97.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.98.1"> Kesselbach’s secretary and manservant. </span><span id="kobo.98.2">I have no doubt that their examination will throw some more light on the case.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">Chapman, who together with Edwards, had been moved to his own room, on the left of the sitting-room, had already recovered from his experiences. </span><span id="kobo.100.2">He described in detail the events of the previous day, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.100.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.101.1"> Kesselbach’s restlessness, the expected visit of the Colonel and, lastly, the attack of which they had been the victims.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.103.1">“Aha!” </span><span id="kobo.103.2">cried </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.103.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.104.1"> Formerie. </span><span id="kobo.104.2">“So there’s an accomplice! </span><span id="kobo.104.3">And you heard his name!</span><span id="kobo.104.4">﻿ ﻿… Marco, you say?</span><span id="kobo.104.5">﻿ ﻿… This is very important. </span><span id="kobo.104.6">When we’ve got the accomplice, we shall be a good deal further advanced.</span><span id="kobo.104.7">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">“Yes, but we’ve not got him,” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.106.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.107.1"> Lenormand ventured to remark.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“We shall see.</span><span id="kobo.109.2">﻿ ﻿… One thing at a time.</span><span id="kobo.109.3">﻿ ﻿… And then, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.109.4">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.110.1"> Chapman, this Marco went away immediately after </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.111.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.112.1"> Gourel had rung the bell?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Yes, we heard him go.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“And after he went, did you hear nothing else?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">“Yes﻿ ﻿… from time to time, but vaguely.</span><span id="kobo.116.2">﻿ ﻿… The door was shut.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“And what sort of noises did you hear?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Bursts of voices. </span><span id="kobo.118.2">The man﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">“Call him by his name, Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“Arsène Lupin must have telephoned.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“Capital! </span><span id="kobo.121.2">We will examine the person of the hotel who has charge of the branch exchange communicating with the outside. </span><span id="kobo.121.3">And, afterward, did you hear him go out, too?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“He came in to see if we were still bound; and, a quarter of an hour later, he went away, closing the hall-door after him.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“Yes, as soon as his crime was committed. </span><span id="kobo.123.2">Good.</span><span id="kobo.123.3">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.123.4">﻿ ﻿… It all fits in.</span><span id="kobo.123.5">﻿ ﻿… And, after that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“After that, we heard nothing more.</span><span id="kobo.124.2">﻿ ﻿… The night passed.</span><span id="kobo.124.3">﻿ ﻿… I fell asleep from exhaustion.</span><span id="kobo.124.4">﻿ ﻿… So did Edwards.</span><span id="kobo.124.5">﻿ ﻿… And it was not until this morning﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">“Yes, I know.</span><span id="kobo.125.2">﻿ ﻿… There, it’s not going badly﻿ ﻿… it all fits in.</span><span id="kobo.125.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">And, marking off the stages of his investigation, in a tone as though he were enumerating so many victories over the stranger, he muttered thoughtfully:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">“The accomplice﻿ ﻿… the telephone﻿ ﻿… the time of the murder﻿ ﻿… the sounds that were heard.</span><span id="kobo.127.2">﻿ ﻿… Good.</span><span id="kobo.127.3">﻿ ﻿… Very good.</span><span id="kobo.127.4">﻿ ﻿… We have still to establish the motive of the crime.</span><span id="kobo.127.5">﻿ ﻿… In this case, as we have Lupin to deal with, the motive is obvious. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.127.6">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.128.1"> Lenormand, have you noticed the least sign of anything being broken open?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Then the robbery must have been effected upon the person of the victim himself. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">Has his pocketbook been found?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">“I left it in the pocket of his jacket,” said Gourel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">They all went into the sitting-room, where </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.133.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.134.1"> Formerie discovered that the pocketbook contained nothing but visiting-cards and papers establishing the murdered man’s identity.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.136.1">“That’s odd. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.136.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.137.1"> Chapman, can you tell us if </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.138.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.139.1"> Kesselbach had any money on him?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">“Yes. </span><span id="kobo.141.2">On the previous day﻿—that is, on Monday, the day before yesterday﻿—we went to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.141.3">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.142.1">, where </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.143.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.144.1"> Kesselbach hired a safe﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">“A safe at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.146.2">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.147.1">? </span><span id="kobo.147.2">Good.</span><span id="kobo.147.3">﻿ ﻿… We must look into that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.149.1">“And, before we left, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.149.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.150.1"> Kesselbach opened an account and drew out five or six thousand francs in banknotes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.152.1">“Excellent﻿ ﻿… that tells us just what we want to know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.153.1">Chapman continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.154.1">“There is another point, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.154.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.155.1">. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.156.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.157.1"> Kesselbach, who for some days had been very uneasy in his mind﻿—I have told you the reason: </span><span id="kobo.157.2">a scheme to which he attached the utmost importance﻿—</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.158.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.159.1"> Kesselbach seemed particularly anxious about two things. </span><span id="kobo.159.2">There was, first, a little ebony box, which he put away safely at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.160.1">Crédit Lyonnais</span><span id="kobo.161.1">; and, next, a little black morocco notecase, in which he kept a few papers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.163.1">“And where is that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.164.1">“Before Lupin’s arrival, he put it, in my presence, into that travelling-bag.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.165.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.166.1"> Formerie took the bag and felt about in it. </span><span id="kobo.166.2">The notecase was not there. </span><span id="kobo.166.3">He rubbed his hands:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.168.1">“Ah, everything fits in!</span><span id="kobo.168.2">﻿ ﻿… We know the culprit, the conditions and the motive of the crime. </span><span id="kobo.168.3">This case won’t take long. </span><span id="kobo.168.4">Are we quite agreed upon everything, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.168.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.169.1"> Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">“Upon not one single thing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">There was a moment of stupefaction. </span><span id="kobo.172.2">The commissary of police had arrived: </span><span id="kobo.172.3">and, behind him, in spite of the constables keeping the door, a troop of journalists, and the hotel staff had forced their way in and were standing in the entrance-lobby.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.173.1">Notorious though the old fellow was for his bluntness﻿—a bluntness which was not without a certain discourtesy and which had already procured him an occasional reprimand in high quarters﻿—the abruptness of this reply took everyone aback. </span><span id="kobo.173.2">And </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.173.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.174.1"> Formerie in particular appeared utterly nonplussed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">“Still,” he said, “I can see nothing that isn’t quite simple. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">Lupin is the thief.</span><span id="kobo.176.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Why did he commit the murder?” </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.177.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.178.1"> Lenormand flung at him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.180.1">“In order to commit the theft.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.181.1">“I beg your pardon; the witnesses’ story proves that the theft took place before the murder. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.181.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.182.1"> Kesselbach was first bound and gagged, then robbed. </span><span id="kobo.182.2">Why should Lupin, who has never resorted to murder, choose this time to kill a man whom he had rendered helpless and whom he had already robbed?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.184.1">The examining-magistrate stroked his long, fair whiskers, with the gesture customary to him when a question seemed incapable of solution. </span><span id="kobo.184.2">He replied in a thoughtful tone:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.185.1">“There are several answers to that.</span><span id="kobo.185.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.186.1">“What are they?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“It depends﻿ ﻿… it depends upon a number of facts as yet unknown.</span><span id="kobo.187.2">﻿ ﻿… And, moreover, the objection applies only to the nature of the motives. </span><span id="kobo.187.3">We are agreed as to the remainder.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">This time, again, the denial was flat, blunt, almost impolite; so much so that the magistrate was absolutely nonplussed, dared not even raise a protest, and remained abashed in the presence of this strange collaborator. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">At last he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">“We all have our theories. </span><span id="kobo.190.2">I should like to know yours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.191.1">“I have none.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.192.1">The chief detective rose and, leaning on his stick, took a few steps through the room. </span><span id="kobo.192.2">All the people around him were silent.</span><span id="kobo.192.3">﻿ ﻿… And it was rather curious, in a group in which, after all, his position was only that of an auxiliary, a subordinate, to see this ailing, decrepit, elderly man dominate the others by the sheer force of an authority which they had to feel, even though they did not accept it. </span><span id="kobo.192.4">After a long pause he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">“I should like to inspect the rooms which adjoin this suite.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">The manager showed him the plan of the hotel. </span><span id="kobo.194.2">The only way out of the right-hand bedroom, which was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.194.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.195.1"> Kesselbach’s, was through the little entrance-hall of the suite. </span><span id="kobo.195.2">But the bedroom on the left, the room occupied by the secretary, communicated with another apartment.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">“Let us inspect it,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.197.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.198.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.200.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.201.1"> Formerie could not help shrugging his shoulders and growling:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“But the communicating door is bolted and the window locked.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">“Let us inspect it,” repeated </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.204.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.205.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">He was taken into the apartment, which was the first of the five rooms reserved for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.207.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.208.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.208.2">Then, at his request, he was taken to the rooms leading out of it. </span><span id="kobo.208.3">All the communicating doors were bolted on both sides.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.210.1">“Are not any of these rooms occupied?” </span><span id="kobo.210.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.211.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“Where are the keys?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“The keys are always kept in the office.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“Then no one can have got in?</span><span id="kobo.214.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“No one, except the floor-waiter who airs and dusts the rooms.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“Send for him, please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.217.1">The man, whose name was Gustave Beudot, replied that he had closed the windows of five rooms on the previous day in accordance with his general instructions.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.218.1">“At what time?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.219.1">“At six o’clock in the evening.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">“And you noticed nothing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“No, sir.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">“And, this morning﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“This morning, I opened the windows at eight o’clock exactly.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.224.1">“And you found nothing?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.225.1">He hesitated. </span><span id="kobo.225.2">He was pressed with questions and ended by admitting:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“Well, I picked up a cigarette-case near the fireplace in 420.</span><span id="kobo.226.2">﻿ ﻿… I intended to take it to the office this evening.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.227.1">“Have you it on you?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.228.1">“No, it is in my room. </span><span id="kobo.228.2">It is a gunmetal case. </span><span id="kobo.228.3">It has a space for tobacco and cigarette-papers on one side and for matches on the other. </span><span id="kobo.228.4">There are two initials in gold: </span><span id="kobo.228.5">an L and an M.</span><span id="kobo.228.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">“What’s that?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">Chapman had stepped forward. </span><span id="kobo.230.2">He seemed greatly surprised and, questioning the servant:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“A gunmetal cigarette-case, you say?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“With three compartments﻿—for tobacco, cigarette-papers, and matches.</span><span id="kobo.233.2">﻿ ﻿… Russian tobacco, wasn’t it, very fine and light?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">“Go and fetch it.</span><span id="kobo.235.2">﻿ ﻿… I should like to see it for myself﻿ ﻿… to make sure.</span><span id="kobo.235.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">At a sign from the chief detective, Gustave Beudot left the room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.237.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.238.1"> Lenormand sat down and his keen eyes examined the carpet, the furniture and the curtains. </span><span id="kobo.238.2">He asked:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.240.1">“This is room 420, is it not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.241.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">The magistrate grinned:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“I should very much like to know what connection you establish between this incident and the tragedy. </span><span id="kobo.243.2">Five locked doors separate us from the room in which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.243.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.244.1"> Kesselbach was murdered.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.246.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.247.1"> Lenormand did not condescend to reply.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">Time passed. </span><span id="kobo.249.2">Gustave did not return.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">“Where does he sleep?” </span><span id="kobo.250.2">asked the chief detective.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“On the sixth floor,” answered the manager. </span><span id="kobo.251.2">“The room is on the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.251.3">Rue de Judée</span><span id="kobo.252.1"> side: </span><span id="kobo.252.2">above this, therefore. </span><span id="kobo.252.3">It’s curious that he’s not back yet.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“Would you have the kindness to send someone to see?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">The manager went himself, accompanied by Chapman. </span><span id="kobo.255.2">A few minutes after, he returned alone, running, with every mark of consternation on his face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“Well?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">“Dead!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">“Murdered?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">“Oh, by thunder, how clever these scoundrels are!” </span><span id="kobo.260.2">roared </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.260.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.261.1"> Lenormand, “Off with you, Gourel, and have the doors of the hotel locked.</span><span id="kobo.261.2">﻿ ﻿… Watch every outlet.</span><span id="kobo.261.3">﻿ ﻿… And you, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.262.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.263.1"> Manager, please take us to Gustave Beudot’s room.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">The manager led the way. </span><span id="kobo.265.2">But as they left the room, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.265.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.266.1"> Lenormand stooped and picked up a tiny little round piece of paper, on which his eyes had already fixed themselves.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">It was a label surrounded with a blue border and marked with the number 813. </span><span id="kobo.268.2">He put it in his pocket, on chance, and joined the others.</span><span id="kobo.268.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.270.1">A small wound in the back, between the shoulder-blades.</span><span id="kobo.270.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.271.1">“Exactly the same wound as </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.271.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.272.1"> Kesselbach’s,” declared the doctor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.274.1">“Yes,” said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.274.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.275.1"> Lenormand, “it was the same hand that struck the blow and the same weapon was used.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.277.1">Judging by the position of the body, the man had been surprised when on his knees before the bed, feeling under the mattress for the cigarette-case which he had hidden there. </span><span id="kobo.277.2">His arm was still caught between the mattress and the bed, but the cigarette-case was not to be found.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.278.1">“That cigarette-case must have been devilish compromising!” </span><span id="kobo.278.2">timidly suggested </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.278.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.279.1"> Formerie, who no longer dared put forward any definite opinion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.281.1">“Well, of course!” </span><span id="kobo.281.2">said the chief detective.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.282.1">“At any rate, we know the initials: </span><span id="kobo.282.2">an L and an </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.282.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.283.1"> And with that, together with what </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.284.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.285.1"> Chapman appears to know, we shall easily learn.</span><span id="kobo.285.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.287.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.288.1"> Lenormand gave a start:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.290.1">“Chapman! </span><span id="kobo.290.2">But where is he?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.291.1">They looked in the passage among the groups of people crowded together. </span><span id="kobo.291.2">Chapman was not there.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.292.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.292.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.293.1"> Chapman came with me,” said the manager.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.295.1">“Yes, yes, I know, but he did not come back with you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.296.1">“No, I left him with the corpse.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.297.1">“You left him!</span><span id="kobo.297.2">﻿ ﻿… Alone?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.298.1">“I said to him, ‘Stay here﻿ ﻿… don’t move.’ ”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.299.1">“And was there no one about? </span><span id="kobo.299.2">Did you see no one?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.300.1">“In the passage? </span><span id="kobo.300.2">No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.301.1">“But in the other attics?</span><span id="kobo.301.2">﻿ ﻿… Or else, look here, round that corner: </span><span id="kobo.301.3">was there no one hiding there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.302.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.303.1"> Lenormand seemed greatly excited. </span><span id="kobo.303.2">He walked up and down, he opened the doors of the rooms. </span><span id="kobo.303.3">And, suddenly, he set off at a run, with an agility of which no one would have thought him capable. </span><span id="kobo.303.4">He rattled down the six storeys, followed at a distance by the manager and the examining-magistrate. </span><span id="kobo.303.5">At the bottom, he found Gourel in front of the main door.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.305.1">“Has no one gone out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.306.1">“No, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.307.1">“What about the other door, in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.307.2">Rue Orvieto</span><span id="kobo.308.1">?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.310.1">“I have posted Dieuzy there.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.311.1">“With firm orders?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.312.1">“Yes, chief.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.313.1">The huge hall of the hotel was crowded with anxious visitors, all commenting on the more or less accurate versions that had reached them of the crime. </span><span id="kobo.313.2">All the servants had been summoned by telephone and were arriving, one by one. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.313.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.314.1"> Lenormand questioned them without delay. </span><span id="kobo.314.2">None of them was able to supply the least information. </span><span id="kobo.314.3">But a fifth-floor chambermaid appeared. </span><span id="kobo.314.4">Ten minutes earlier, or thereabouts, she had passed two gentlemen who were coming down the servants’ staircase between the fifth and the fourth floors.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.316.1">“They came down very fast. </span><span id="kobo.316.2">The one in front was holding the other by the hand. </span><span id="kobo.316.3">I was surprised to see those two gentlemen on the servants’ staircase.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.317.1">“Would you know them again?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.318.1">“Not the first one. </span><span id="kobo.318.2">He had his head turned the other way. </span><span id="kobo.318.3">He was a thin, fair man. </span><span id="kobo.318.4">He wore a soft black hat﻿ ﻿… and black clothes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.319.1">“And the other?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.320.1">“Oh, the other was an Englishman, with a big, clean-shaven face and a check suit. </span><span id="kobo.320.2">He had no hat on.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.321.1">The description obviously referred to Chapman.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.322.1">The woman added:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.323.1">“He looked﻿ ﻿… he looked quite funny﻿ ﻿… as if he was mad.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.324.1">Gourel’s word was not enough for </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.324.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.325.1"> Lenormand. </span><span id="kobo.325.2">One after the other, he questioned the under-porters standing at the two doors:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.327.1">“Did you know </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.327.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.328.1"> Chapman?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.330.1">“Yes, sir, he always spoke to us.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.331.1">“And you have not seen him go out?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.332.1">“No, sir. </span><span id="kobo.332.2">He has not been out this morning.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.333.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.334.1"> Lenormand turned to the commissary of police: </span><span id="kobo.334.2">“How many men have you with you, Monsieur le Commissaire?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.336.1">“Four.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.337.1">“That’s not sufficient. </span><span id="kobo.337.2">Telephone to your secretary to send you all the men available. </span><span id="kobo.337.3">And please be so good as yourself to organize the closest watch at every outlet. </span><span id="kobo.337.4">The state of siege, Monsieur le Commissaire.</span><span id="kobo.337.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.338.1">“But I say,” protested the manager, “my customers?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.339.1">“I don’t care a hang, sir, for your customers! </span><span id="kobo.339.2">My duty comes before everything; and my duty is at all costs to arrest.</span><span id="kobo.339.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.340.1">“So you believe﻿ ﻿…” the examining-magistrate ventured to interpolate.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.341.1">“I don’t </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.341.2">believe</span></em><span id="kobo.342.1">, monsieur﻿ ﻿… I am sure that the perpetrator of both the murders is still in the hotel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.344.1">“But then Chapman﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.345.1">“At this moment, I cannot guarantee that Chapman is still alive. </span><span id="kobo.345.2">In any case, it is only a question of minutes, of seconds.</span><span id="kobo.345.3">﻿ ﻿… Gourel, take two men and search all the rooms on the fourth floor.</span><span id="kobo.345.4">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.345.5">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.346.1"> Manager, send one of your clerks with them.</span><span id="kobo.346.2">﻿ ﻿… As for the other floors, I shall proceed as soon as we are reinforced. </span><span id="kobo.346.3">Come, Gourel, off with you, and keep your eyes open.</span><span id="kobo.346.4">﻿ ﻿… It’s big game you’re hunting!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.348.1">Gourel and his men hurried away. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.348.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.349.1"> Lenormand himself remained in the hall, near the office. </span><span id="kobo.349.2">This time, he did not think of sitting down, as his custom was. </span><span id="kobo.349.3">He walked from the main entrance to the door in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.350.1">Rue Orvieto</span><span id="kobo.351.1"> and returned to the point from which he had started. </span><span id="kobo.351.2">At intervals he gave instructions:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.353.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.353.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.354.1"> Manager, see that the kitchens are watched. </span><span id="kobo.354.2">They may try to escape that way.</span><span id="kobo.354.3">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.355.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.356.1"> Manager, instruct your young lady at the telephone not to put any of the people in the hotel into communication with outside subscribers. </span><span id="kobo.356.2">If a call comes from the outside, she can connect the caller with the person asked for, but she must take a note of that person’s name.</span><span id="kobo.356.3">﻿ ﻿… </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.357.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.358.1"> Manager, have a list made out of all your visitors whose name begins with an L or an M.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.360.1">The tension caught the spectators by the throat, as they stood clustered in the middle of the hall, silent and gasping for breath, shaking with fear at the least sound, obsessed by the infernal image of the murderer. </span><span id="kobo.360.2">Where was he hiding? </span><span id="kobo.360.3">Would he show himself? </span><span id="kobo.360.4">Was he not one of themselves: </span><span id="kobo.360.5">this one, perhaps﻿ ﻿… or that one?</span><span id="kobo.360.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.361.1">And all eyes were turned on the gray-haired gentleman in spectacles, an olive-green frock-coat and a maroon-colored neckerchief, who was walking about, with his bent back, on a pair of shaky legs.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.362.1">At times, one of the waiters accompanying Sergeant Gourel on his search would come running up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.363.1">“Any news?” </span><span id="kobo.363.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.363.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.364.1"> Lenormand.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.366.1">“No, sir, we’ve found nothing.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.367.1">The manager made two attempts to induce him to relax his orders regarding the doors. </span><span id="kobo.367.2">The situation was becoming intolerable. </span><span id="kobo.367.3">The office was filled with loudly-protesting visitors, who had business outside, or who had arranged to leave Paris.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.368.1">“I don’t care a hang!” </span><span id="kobo.368.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.368.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.369.1"> Lenormand again.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.371.1">“But I know them all.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.372.1">“I congratulate you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.373.1">“You are exceeding your powers.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.374.1">“I know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.375.1">“The law will decide against you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.376.1">“I’m convinced of that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.377.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.377.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.378.1"> himself.</span><span id="kobo.378.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.380.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.380.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.381.1"> Formerie had better not interfere. </span><span id="kobo.381.2">He can mind his own business, which is to examine the servants, as he is doing now. </span><span id="kobo.381.3">Besides, it has nothing to do with the examining-magistrate, it has to do with the police. </span><span id="kobo.381.4">It’s my affair.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.383.1">Just then a squad of police burst into the hotel. </span><span id="kobo.383.2">The chief detective divided them into several sections which he sent up to the third floor. </span><span id="kobo.383.3">Then, addressing the commissary of police:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.384.1">“My dear commissary, I leave the task of watching the doors to you. </span><span id="kobo.384.2">No weakness, I entreat you. </span><span id="kobo.384.3">I will take the responsibility for anything that happens.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.385.1">And, turning to the lift, he had himself conveyed to the second floor.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.387.1">It was a difficult business and a long one, for they had to open the doors of the sixty bedrooms, to inspect all the bathrooms, all the recesses, all the cupboards, every nook and corner.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.388.1">And it was also fruitless. </span><span id="kobo.388.2">An hour later, on the stroke of twelve, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.388.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.389.1"> Lenormand had just done the second floor; the other parties had not yet finished the upper floors; and no discovery had been made.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.391.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.392.1"> Lenormand hesitated: </span><span id="kobo.392.2">had the murderer retreated to the attics?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.394.1">He was deciding, however, to go downstairs, when he was told that </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.394.2">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.395.1"> Kesselbach had just arrived with her lady-companion. </span><span id="kobo.395.2">Edwards, the old confidential manservant, had accepted the task of informing her of </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.396.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.397.1"> Kesselbach’s death.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.399.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.400.1"> Lenormand found her in one of the drawing rooms, overcome by the unexpected shock, dry-eyed, but with her features wrung with grief and her body trembling all over, as though convulsed with fever. </span><span id="kobo.400.2">She was a rather tall, dark woman; and her black and exceedingly beautiful eyes were filled with gold, with little gold spots, like spangles gleaming in the dark. </span><span id="kobo.400.3">Her husband had met her in Holland, where Dolores was born of an old family of Spanish origin, the Amontis. </span><span id="kobo.400.4">He fell in love with her at first sight; and for four years the harmony between them, built up of mutual affection and devotion, had never been interrupted.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.402.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.403.1"> Lenormand introduced himself. </span><span id="kobo.403.2">She looked at him without replying; and he was silent, for she did not appear, in her stupor, to understand what he said. </span><span id="kobo.403.3">Then, suddenly, she began to shed copious tears and asked to be taken to her husband.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.405.1">In the hall, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.405.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.406.1"> Lenormand found Gourel, who was looking for him and who rushed at him with a hat which he held in his hand:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.408.1">“I picked this up, chief.</span><span id="kobo.408.2">﻿ ﻿… There’s no doubt whom it belongs to, is there?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.409.1">It was a soft, black felt hat and resembled the description given. </span><span id="kobo.409.2">There was no lining or label inside it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.410.1">“Where did you pick it up?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.411.1">“On the second-floor landing of the servants’ staircase.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.412.1">“Nothing on the other floors?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.413.1">“Nothing. </span><span id="kobo.413.2">We’ve searched everywhere. </span><span id="kobo.413.3">There is only the first floor left. </span><span id="kobo.413.4">And this hat shows that the man went down so far. </span><span id="kobo.413.5">We’re burning, chief!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.414.1">“I think so.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.415.1">At the foot of the stairs </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.415.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.416.1"> Lenormand stopped:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.418.1">“Go back to the commissary and give him my orders: </span><span id="kobo.418.2">he must post two men at the foot of each of the four staircases, revolver in hand. </span><span id="kobo.418.3">And they are to fire, if necessary. </span><span id="kobo.418.4">Understand this, Gourel: </span><span id="kobo.418.5">if Chapman is not saved and if the fellow escapes, it means my resignation. </span><span id="kobo.418.6">I’ve been woolgathering for over two hours.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.419.1">He went up the stairs. </span><span id="kobo.419.2">On the first floor he met two policemen leaving a bedroom, accompanied by a servant of the hotel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.420.1">The passage was deserted. </span><span id="kobo.420.2">The hotel staff dared not venture into it. </span><span id="kobo.420.3">Some of the permanent visitors had locked themselves in their rooms; and the police had to knock for a long time and proclaim who they were before they could get the doors opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.421.1">Farther on, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.421.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.422.1"> Lenormand saw another group of policemen searching the maid’s pantry and, at the end of a long passage, he saw some more men who were approaching the turning, that is to say, that part of the passage which contained the rooms overlooking the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.423.1">Rue de Judée</span><span id="kobo.424.1">.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.426.1">And, suddenly, he heard these men shouting; and they disappeared at a run.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.427.1">He hurried after them.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.428.1">The policemen had stopped in the middle of the passage. </span><span id="kobo.428.2">At their feet, blocking their way, with its face on the carpet, lay a corpse.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.429.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.430.1"> Lenormand bent down and took the lifeless head in his hands:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.432.1">“Chapman,” he muttered. </span><span id="kobo.432.2">“He is dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.433.1">He examined the body. </span><span id="kobo.433.2">A white knitted silk muffler was tied round the neck. </span><span id="kobo.433.3">He undid it. </span><span id="kobo.433.4">Red stains appeared; and he saw that the muffler held a thick wad of cotton-wool in position against the nape of the neck. </span><span id="kobo.433.5">The wad was soaked with blood.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.434.1">Once again there was the same little wound, clean, frank and pitiless.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.435.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.436.1"> Formerie and the commissary were at once told and came hastening up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.438.1">“No one gone out?” </span><span id="kobo.438.2">asked the chief detective. </span><span id="kobo.438.3">“No surprise?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.439.1">“No,” said the commissary. </span><span id="kobo.439.2">“There are two men on guard at the foot of each staircase.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.440.1">“Perhaps he has gone up again?” </span><span id="kobo.440.2">said </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.440.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.441.1"> Formerie.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.443.1">“No!</span><span id="kobo.443.2">﻿ ﻿… No!</span><span id="kobo.443.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.444.1">“But someone must have met him.</span><span id="kobo.444.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.445.1">“No.</span><span id="kobo.445.2">﻿ ﻿… This all happened quite a long time ago. </span><span id="kobo.445.3">The hands are cold.</span><span id="kobo.445.4">﻿ ﻿… The murder must have been committed almost immediately after the other﻿ ﻿… as soon as the two men came here by the servants’ staircase.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.446.1">“But the body would have been seen! </span><span id="kobo.446.2">Think, fifty people must have passed this spot during the last two hours.</span><span id="kobo.446.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.447.1">“The body was not here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.448.1">“Then where was it?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.449.1">“Why, how can I tell?” </span><span id="kobo.449.2">snapped the chief detective. </span><span id="kobo.449.3">“Do as I’m doing, look for yourself! </span><span id="kobo.449.4">You can’t find things by talking.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.450.1">He furiously patted the knob of his stick with a twitching hand; and he stood there, with his eyes fixed on the body, silent and thoughtful. </span><span id="kobo.450.2">At last he spoke:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.451.1">“Monsieur le Commissaire, be so good as to have the victim taken to an empty room. </span><span id="kobo.451.2">Let them fetch the doctor. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.451.3">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.452.1"> Manager, would you mind opening the doors of all the rooms on this passage for me?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.454.1">On the left were three bedrooms and two sitting-rooms, forming an empty suite, which </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.454.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.455.1"> Lenormand inspected. </span><span id="kobo.455.2">On the right were four bedrooms. </span><span id="kobo.455.3">Two were occupied respectively by a </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.456.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.457.1"> Reverdat and an Italian, Baron Giacomini, who were both then out. </span><span id="kobo.457.2">In the third room they found an elderly English maiden lady still in bed; and, in the fourth, an Englishman who was placidly reading and smoking and who had not been in the least disturbed by the noises in the passage. </span><span id="kobo.457.3">His name was Major Parbury.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.459.1">No amount of searching or questioning led to any result. </span><span id="kobo.459.2">The old maid had heard nothing before the exclamations of the policeman: </span><span id="kobo.459.3">no noise of a struggle, no cry of pain, no sound of quarreling; and Major Parbury neither.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.460.1">Moreover, there was no suspicious clue found, no trace of blood, nothing to lead them to suppose that the unfortunate Chapman had been in one of those rooms.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.461.1">“It’s queer,” muttered the examining-magistrate, “it’s all very queer.</span><span id="kobo.461.2">﻿ ﻿…” And he confessed, ingenuously, “I feel more and more at sea.</span><span id="kobo.461.3">﻿ ﻿… There is a whole series of circumstances that are partly beyond me. </span><span id="kobo.461.4">What do you make of it, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.461.5">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.462.1"> Lenormand?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.464.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.465.1"> Lenormand was on the point of letting off one of those pointed rejoinders in which he was wont to give vent to his chronic ill-temper, when Gourel appeared upon the scene, all out of breath.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.467.1">“Chief,” he panted, “they’ve found this﻿ ﻿… downstairs﻿ ﻿… in the office﻿ ﻿… on a chair.</span><span id="kobo.467.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.468.1">It was a parcel of moderate dimensions, wrapped up in a piece of black serge.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.469.1">“Did they open it?” </span><span id="kobo.469.2">asked the chief.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.470.1">“Yes, but when they saw what the parcel contained, they did it up again exactly as it was﻿ ﻿… fastened very tight, as you can see.</span><span id="kobo.470.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.471.1">“Untie it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.472.1">Gourel removed the wrapper and disclosed a black diagonal jacket and trousers, which had evidently been packed up in a hurry, as the creases in the cloth showed. </span><span id="kobo.472.2">In the middle was a towel, covered with blood, which had been dipped in water, in order, no doubt, to destroy the marks of the hands that had been wiped on it. </span><span id="kobo.472.3">Inside the napkin was a steel dagger, with a handle encrusted with gold. </span><span id="kobo.472.4">This also was red with blood, the blood of three men stabbed within the space of a few hours by an invisible hand, amid the crowd of three hundred people moving about in the huge hotel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.473.1">Edwards, the manservant, at once identified the dagger as belonging to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.473.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.474.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.474.2">He had seen it on the table on the previous day, before the assault committed by Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.476.1">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.476.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.477.1"> Manager,” said the chief detective, “the restriction is over. </span><span id="kobo.477.2">Gourel, go and give orders to leave the doors free.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.479.1">“So you think that Lupin has succeeded in getting out?” </span><span id="kobo.479.2">asked </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.479.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.480.1"> Formerie.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.482.1">“No. </span><span id="kobo.482.2">The perpetrator of the three murders which we have discovered is in one of the rooms of the hotel, or, rather, he is among the visitors in the hall or in the reception-rooms. </span><span id="kobo.482.3">In my opinion, he was staying in the hotel.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.483.1">“Impossible! </span><span id="kobo.483.2">Besides, where would he have changed his clothes? </span><span id="kobo.483.3">And what clothes would he have on now?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.484.1">“I don’t know, but I am stating a fact.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.485.1">“And you are letting him go? </span><span id="kobo.485.2">Why, he’ll just walk out quietly, with his hands in his pockets!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.486.1">“The one who walks away like that, without his luggage, and who does not return, will be the criminal. </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.486.2">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.487.1"> Manager, please come with me to the office. </span><span id="kobo.487.2">I should like to make a close inspection of your visitors’ book.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.489.1">In the office, </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.489.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.490.1"> Lenormand found a few letters addressed to </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.491.1">Mr.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.492.1"> Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.492.2">He handed them to the examining-magistrate. </span><span id="kobo.492.3">There was also a parcel that had just come by the Paris parcel-post. </span><span id="kobo.492.4">The paper in which it was packed was partly torn; and </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.493.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.494.1"> Lenormand saw that it held a small ebony box, engraved with the name of Rudolf Kesselbach. </span><span id="kobo.494.2">Feeling curious, he opened the parcel. </span><span id="kobo.494.3">The box contained the fragments of a looking-glass which had evidently been fixed to the inside of the lid. </span><span id="kobo.494.4">It also contained the card of Arsène Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.496.1">But one detail seemed to strike the chief detective. </span><span id="kobo.496.2">On the outside, at the bottom of the box, was a little blue-edged label, similar to the label which he had picked up in the room on the fourth floor where the cigarette-case was found, and this label bore the same number, 813.</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>