<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>X: Lupin’s Great Scheme</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="chapter-10" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">X</span></h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">Lupin’s Great Scheme</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">Contrary to his expectations, Lupin had no sort of annoyance to undergo in consequence of his assault on </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.4.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.5.1"> Formerie.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">The examining-magistrate came to the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.7.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.8.1"> in person, two days later, and told him, with some embarrassment and with an affectation of kindness, that he did not intend to pursue the matter further.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“Nor I, either,” retorted Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“What do you mean?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">“Well, I mean that I shall send no communication to the press about this particular matter nor do anything that might expose you to ridicule, </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.12.2">Monsieur le Juge d’Instruction</span><span id="kobo.13.1">. </span><span id="kobo.13.2">The scandal shall not be made public, I promise. </span><span id="kobo.13.3">That is what you want, is it not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.15.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.16.1"> Formerie blushed and, without replying, continued:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“Only, henceforth, your examinations will take place here.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“It’s quite right that the law should put itself out for Lupin!” </span><span id="kobo.19.2">said that gentleman.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">The announcement of this decision, which interrupted his almost daily meetings with the Doudevilles, did not disturb Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.20.2">He had taken his precautions from the first day, by giving the Doudevilles all the necessary instructions and, now that the preparations were nearly completed, reckoned upon being able to turn old Steinweg’s confidences to the best account without delay and to obtain his liberty by one of the most extraordinary and ingenious schemes that had ever entered his brain.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">His method of correspondence was a simple one; and he had devised it at once. </span><span id="kobo.21.2">Every morning he was supplied with sheets of paper in numbered packets. </span><span id="kobo.21.3">He made these into envelopes; and, every evening, the envelopes, duly folded and gummed, were fetched away. </span><span id="kobo.21.4">Now Lupin, noticing that his packet always bore the same number, had drawn the inference that the distribution of the numbered packets was always affected in the same order among the prisoners who had chosen that particular kind of work. </span><span id="kobo.21.5">Experience showed that he was right.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">It only remained for the Doudevilles to bribe one of the employees of the private firm entrusted with the supply and dispatch of the envelopes. </span><span id="kobo.22.2">This was easily done; and, thenceforward, Lupin, sure of success, had only to wait quietly until the sign agreed upon between him and his friends appeared upon the top sheet of the packet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">On the sixth day, he gave an exclamation of delight:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">“At last!” </span><span id="kobo.24.2">he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">He took a tiny bottle from a hiding-place, uncorked it, moistened the tip of his forefinger with the liquid which it contained and passed his finger over the third sheet in the packet.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">In a moment, strokes appeared, then letters, then words and sentences.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">He read:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.28.1">“All well. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">Steinweg free. </span><span id="kobo.28.3">Hiding in country. </span><span id="kobo.28.4">Geneviève Ernemont good health. </span><span id="kobo.28.5">Often goes Hôtel Bristol to see </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.28.6">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.29.1"> Kesselbach, who is ill. </span><span id="kobo.29.2">Meets Pierre Leduc there every time. </span><span id="kobo.29.3">Answer by same means. </span><span id="kobo.29.4">No danger.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">So communications were established with the outside. </span><span id="kobo.32.2">Once more, Lupin’s efforts were crowned with success. </span><span id="kobo.32.3">All that he had to do now was to execute his plan and lead the press campaign which he had prepared in the peaceful solitude of his prison.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">Three days later, these few lines appeared in the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.33.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.34.1">:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.36.1">“Quite apart from Prince Bismarck’s </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.36.2">Memoirs</span></i><span id="kobo.37.1">, which, according to well-informed people, contain merely the official history of the events in which the great chancellor was concerned, there exists a series of confidential letters of no little interest.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">“These letters have been recently discovered. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">We hear, on good authority, that they will be published almost immediately.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">My readers will remember the noise which these mysterious sentences made throughout the civilized world, the comments in which people indulged, the suggestions put forward and, in particular, the controversy that followed in the German press. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">Who had inspired those lines? </span><span id="kobo.41.3">What were the letters in question? </span><span id="kobo.41.4">Who had written them to the chancellor or who had received them from him? </span><span id="kobo.41.5">Was it an act of posthumous revenge? </span><span id="kobo.41.6">Or was it an indiscretion committed by one of Bismarck’s correspondents?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">A second note settled public opinion as to certain points, but, at the same time, worked it up to a strange pitch of excitement. </span><span id="kobo.42.2">It ran as follows:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header class="calibre18">
					<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.43.1">“To the Editor of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.43.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.44.1">,</span></p>
					<p class="calibre19"><span id="kobo.46.1">“</span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.46.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.47.1"> Palace,</span></p>
					<p class="calibre19"><span id="kobo.49.1">“Cell 14, Second Division.</span></p>
				</header>
				<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:recipient"><span id="kobo.51.1">“Sir,</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.52.1">“You inserted in your issue of Tuesday last a paragraph based upon a few words which I let fall, the other evening, in the course of a lecture, which I was delivering at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.52.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.53.1"> on foreign politics. </span><span id="kobo.53.2">Your correspondent’s paragraph, although accurate in all essential particulars, requires a slight correction. </span><span id="kobo.53.3">The letters exist, as stated, and it is impossible to deny their exceptional importance, seeing that, for ten years, they have been the object of an uninterrupted search on the part of the government interested. </span><span id="kobo.53.4">But nobody knows where they are hidden and nobody knows a single word of what they contain.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“The public, I am convinced, will bear me no ill-will if I keep it waiting for some time before satisfying its legitimate curiosity. </span><span id="kobo.55.2">Apart from the fact that I am not in possession of all the elements necessary for the pursuit of the truth, my present occupation does not allow me to devote so much time as I could wish to this matter.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“All that I can say for the moment is that the letters were entrusted by the dying statesman to one of his most faithful friends and that this friend had eventually to suffer the serious consequences of his loyalty. </span><span id="kobo.56.2">Constant spying, domiciliary visits, nothing was spared him.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">“I have given orders to two of the best agents of my secret police to take up this scent from the start in a position to get to the bottom of this exciting mystery.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<div epub:type="z3998:valediction" class="epub-type-titlepage">
						<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.58.1">“I have the honor to be Sir,</span></p>
						<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">“Your obedient servant,</span></p>
					</div>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature1" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">So it was Arsène Lupin who was conducting the case! </span><span id="kobo.64.2">It was he who, from his prison cell, was stage-managing the comedy or the tragedy announced in the first note. </span><span id="kobo.64.3">What luck! </span><span id="kobo.64.4">Everybody was delighted. </span><span id="kobo.64.5">With an artist like Lupin, the spectacle could not fail to be both picturesque and startling.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">Three days later the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.65.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.66.1"> contained the following letter from Arsène Lupin:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.68.1">“The name of the devoted friend to whom I referred has been imparted to me. </span><span id="kobo.68.2">It was the Grand-Duke Hermann </span><span epub:type="z3998:roman" id="kobo.68.3">III</span><span id="kobo.69.1">, reigning (although dispossessed) sovereign of the Grand-duchy of Zweibrucken-Veldenz and a confidant of Prince Bismarck, whose entire friendship he enjoyed.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“A thorough search was made of his house by Count von W﻿—﻿—, at the head of twelve men. </span><span id="kobo.71.2">The result of this search was purely negative, but the grand-duke was nevertheless proved to be in possession of the papers.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">“Where had he hidden them? </span><span id="kobo.72.2">This was a problem which probably nobody in the world would be able to solve at the present moment.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“I must ask for twenty-four hours in which to solve it.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.74.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">And, twenty-four hours later, the promised note appeared:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.78.1">“The famous letters are hidden in the feudal castle of Veldenz, the capital of the Grand-duchy of Zweibrucken. </span><span id="kobo.78.2">The castle was partly destroyed in the course of the nineteenth century.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“Where exactly are they hidden? </span><span id="kobo.79.2">And what are the letters precisely? </span><span id="kobo.79.3">These are the two problems which I am now engaged in unravelling; and I shall publish the solution in four days’ time.</span></p>
				<footer class="calibre10">
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><span id="kobo.80.1">“Arsène Lupin.”</span></p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">On the day stated, men scrambled to obtain copies of the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.83.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.84.1">. </span><span id="kobo.84.2">To the general disappointment, the promised information was not given. </span><span id="kobo.84.3">The same silence followed on the next day and the day after.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">What had happened?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">It leaked out through an indiscretion at the Prefecture of Police. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">The governor of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.87.3">Santé</span><span id="kobo.88.1">, it appeared, had been warned that Lupin was communicating with his accomplices by means of the packets of envelopes which he made. </span><span id="kobo.88.2">Nothing had been discovered; but it was thought best, in any case, to forbid all work to the insufferable prisoner.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">To this the insufferable prisoner replied:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“As I have nothing to do now, I may as well attend to my trial. </span><span id="kobo.91.2">Please let my counsel, Maître Quimbel, know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">It was true. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">Lupin, who, hitherto, had refused to hold any intercourse with Maître Quimbel, now consented to see him and to prepare his defence.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">On the next day Maître Quimbel, in cheery tones, asked for Lupin to be brought to the barristers’ room. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">He was an elderly man, wearing a pair of very powerful spectacles, which made his eyes seem enormous. </span><span id="kobo.93.3">He put his hat on the table, spread out his briefcase and at once began to put a series of questions which he had carefully prepared.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">Lupin replied with extreme readiness and even volunteered a host of particulars, which Maître Quimbel took down, as he spoke, on slips pinned one to the other.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“And so you say,” continued the barrister, with his head over his papers, “that, at that time﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.96.1">“I say that, at that time﻿ ﻿…” Lupin answered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.97.1">Little by little, with a series of natural and hardly perceptible movements, he leant elbows on the table. </span><span id="kobo.97.2">He gradually lowered his arms, slipped his hand under Maître Quimbel’s hat, put his finger into the leather band and took out one of those strips of paper, folded lengthwise, which the hatter inserts between the leather and the lining when the hat is a trifle too large.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">He unfolded the paper. </span><span id="kobo.98.2">It was a message from Doudeville, written in a cipher agreed upon beforehand:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.99.1">“I am engaged as indoor servant at Maître Quimbel’s. </span><span id="kobo.99.2">You can answer by the same means without fear.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.100.1">“It was </span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.100.2">L. </span><span id="kobo.100.3">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.101.1">, the murderer, who gave away the envelope trick. </span><span id="kobo.101.2">A good thing that you foresaw this move!”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.104.1">Hereupon followed a minute report of all the facts and comments caused by Lupin’s revelations.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">Lupin took from his pocket a similar strip of paper containing his instructions, quietly substituted it in the place of the other and drew his hand back again. </span><span id="kobo.105.2">The trick was played.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">And Lupin’s correspondence with the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.106.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.107.1"> was resumed without further delay.</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.109.1">“I apologize to the public for not keeping my promise. </span><span id="kobo.109.2">The postal arrangements at the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.109.3">Santé</span><span id="kobo.110.1"> Palace are woefully inadequate.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“However, we are near the end. </span><span id="kobo.112.2">I have in hand all the documents that establish the truth upon an indisputable basis. </span><span id="kobo.112.3">I shall not publish them for the moment. </span><span id="kobo.112.4">Nevertheless, I will say this: </span><span id="kobo.112.5">among the letters are some that were addressed to the chancellor by one who, at that time, declared himself his disciple and his admirer and who was destined, several years after, to rid himself of that irksome tutor and to govern alone.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“I trust that I make myself sufficiently clear.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">And, on the next day:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.116.1">“The letters were written during the late Emperor’s illness. </span><span id="kobo.116.2">I need hardly add more to prove their importance.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">Four days of silence, and then this final note, which caused a stir that has not yet been forgotten:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.119.1">“My investigation is finished. </span><span id="kobo.119.2">I now know everything.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">“By dint of reflection, I have guessed the secret of the hiding-place.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“My friends are going to Veldenz and, in spite of every obstacle, will enter the castle by a way which I am pointing out to them.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“The newspapers will then publish photographs of the letters, of which I already know the tenor; but I prefer to reproduce the whole text.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“This certain, inevitable publication will take place in a fortnight from today precisely, on the 22nd of August next.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">“Between this and then I will keep silence﻿ ﻿… and wait.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">The communications to the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.126.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.127.1"> did, in fact, stop for a time, but Lupin never ceased corresponding with his friends, “</span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.128.1">via</span></em><span id="kobo.129.1"> the hat,” as they said among themselves. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">It was so simple! </span><span id="kobo.129.3">There was no danger. </span><span id="kobo.129.4">Who could ever suspect that Maître Quimbel’s hat served Lupin as a letter-box?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">Every two or three mornings, whenever he called, in fact, the celebrated advocate faithfully brought his client’s letters: </span><span id="kobo.131.2">letters from Paris, letters from the country, letters from Germany; all reduced and condensed by Doudeville into a brief form and cipher language. </span><span id="kobo.131.3">And, an hour later, Maître Quimbel solemnly walked away, carrying Lupin’s orders.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.133.1">Now, one day, the governor of the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.133.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.134.1"> received a telephone message, signed, “</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name" class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.135.1">L. </span><span id="kobo.135.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.136.1">,” informing him that Maître Quimbel was, in all probability, serving Lupin as his unwitting postman and that it would be advisable to keep an eye upon the worthy man’s visits. </span><span id="kobo.136.2">The governor told Maître Quimbel, who thereupon resolved to bring his junior with him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.138.1">So, once again, in spite of all Lupin’s efforts, in spite of his fertile powers of invention, in spite of the marvels of ingenuity which he renewed after each defeat, once again Lupin found himself cut off from communication with the outside world by the infernal genius of his formidable adversary. </span><span id="kobo.138.2">And he found himself thus cut off at the most critical moment, at the solemn minute when, from his cell, he was playing his last trump-card against the coalesced forces that were overwhelming him so terribly.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.140.1">On the 13th of August, as he sat facing the two counsels, his attention was attracted by a newspaper in which some of Maître Quimbel’s papers were wrapped up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.141.1">He saw a heading in very large type</span></p>
			<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:article">
				<header class="calibre20">
					<p class="first-child1">
						<b class="calibre21"><span id="kobo.142.1" class="kobospan">“813”</span></b>
					</p>
				</header>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.146.1">The subheadings were:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<header class="calibre20">
					<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.147.1">“</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.147.2">A Fresh Murder</span></b></p>
					<p class="calibre19"><span id="kobo.149.1">“</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.149.2">The Excitement in Germany</span></b></p>
					<p class="calibre19"><span id="kobo.151.1">“</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.151.2">Has the Secret of the ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.151.3">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.152.1">’ Been Discovered?</span></b><span id="kobo.154.1">”</span></p>
				</header>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.158.1">Lupin turned pale with anguish. </span><span id="kobo.158.2">Below he read the words:</span></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:article" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.159.1">“Two sensational telegrams reach us at the moment of going to press.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.160.1">“The body of an old man has been found near Augsburg, with his throat cut with a knife. </span><span id="kobo.160.2">The police have succeeded in identifying the victim: </span><span id="kobo.160.3">it is Steinweg, the man mentioned in the Kesselbach case.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.161.1">“On the other hand, a correspondent telegraphs that the famous English detective, Holmlock Shears, has been hurriedly summoned to Cologne. </span><span id="kobo.161.2">He will there meet the Emperor; and they will both proceed to Veldenz Castle.</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.162.1">“Holmlock Shears is said to have undertaken to discover the secret of the ‘</span><b class="calibre3"><span id="kobo.162.2">apoon</span></b><span id="kobo.163.1">.’</span></p>
				<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.165.1">“If he succeeds, it will mean the pitiful failure of the incomprehensible campaign which Arsène Lupin has been conducting for the past month in so strange a fashion.”</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.168.1">Perhaps public curiosity was never so much stirred as by the duel announced to take place between Shears and Lupin, an invisible duel in the circumstances, an anonymous duel, one might say, in which everything would happen in the dark, in which people would be able to judge only by the final results, and yet an impressive duel, because of all the scandal that circled around the adventure and because of the stakes in dispute between the two irreconcilable enemies, now once more opposed to each other.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.169.1">And it was a question not of small private interests, of insignificant burglaries, of trumpery individual passions, but of a matter of really worldwide importance, involving the politics of the three great western nations and capable of disturbing the peace of the world.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.170.1">People waited anxiously; and no one knew exactly what he was waiting for. </span><span id="kobo.170.2">For, after all, if the detective came out victorious in the duel, if he found the letters, who would ever know? </span><span id="kobo.170.3">What proof would anyone have of his triumph?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.171.1">In the main, all hopes were centred on Lupin, on his well-known habit of calling the public to witness his acts. </span><span id="kobo.171.2">What was he going to do? </span><span id="kobo.171.3">How could he avert the frightful danger that threatened him? </span><span id="kobo.171.4">Was he even aware of it?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.172.1">Those were the questions which men asked themselves.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.174.1">Between the four walls of his cell, prisoner 14 asked himself pretty nearly the same questions; and he for his part, was not stimulated by idle curiosity, but by real uneasiness, by constant anxiety. </span><span id="kobo.174.2">He felt himself irrevocably alone, with impotent hands, an impotent will, an impotent brain. </span><span id="kobo.174.3">It availed him nothing that he was able, ingenious, fearless, heroic. </span><span id="kobo.174.4">The struggle was being carried on without him. </span><span id="kobo.174.5">His part was now finished. </span><span id="kobo.174.6">He had joined all the pieces and set all the springs of the great machine that was to produce, that was, in a manner of speaking, automatically to manufacture his liberty; and it was impossible for him to make a single movement to improve and supervise his handiwork.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.175.1">At the date fixed, the machine would start working. </span><span id="kobo.175.2">Between now and then, a thousand adverse incidents might spring up, a thousand obstacles arise, without his having the means to combat those incidents or remove those obstacles.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.176.1">Lupin spent the unhappiest hours of his life at that time. </span><span id="kobo.176.2">He doubted himself. </span><span id="kobo.176.3">He wondered whether his existence would be buried for good in the horror of a jail. </span><span id="kobo.176.4">Had he not made a mistake in his calculations? </span><span id="kobo.176.5">Was it not childish to believe that the event that was to set him free would happen on the appointed date?</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.177.1">“Madness!” </span><span id="kobo.177.2">he cried. </span><span id="kobo.177.3">“My argument is false.</span><span id="kobo.177.4">﻿ ﻿… How can I expect such a concurrence of circumstances? </span><span id="kobo.177.5">There will be some little fact that will destroy all﻿ ﻿… the inevitable grain of sand.</span><span id="kobo.177.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.178.1">Steinweg’s death and the disappearance of the documents which the old man was to make over to him did not trouble him greatly. </span><span id="kobo.178.2">The documents he could have done without in case of need; and, with the few words which Steinweg had told him, he was able, by dint of guesswork and his native genius, to reconstruct what the Emperor’s letters contained and to draw up the plan of battle that would lead to victory. </span><span id="kobo.178.3">But he thought of Holmlock Shears, who was over there now, in the very centre of the battlefield, and who was seeking and who would find the letters, thus demolishing the edifice so patiently built up.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.179.1">And he thought of “the other one,” the implacable enemy, lurking round the prison, hidden in the prison, perhaps, who guessed his most secret plans even before they were hatched in the mystery of his thought.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.181.1">The 17th of August!</span><span id="kobo.181.2">﻿ ﻿… The 18th of August!</span><span id="kobo.181.3">﻿ ﻿… The 19th!</span><span id="kobo.181.4">﻿ ﻿… Two more days.</span><span id="kobo.181.5">﻿ ﻿… Two centuries rather! </span><span id="kobo.181.6">Oh, the interminable minutes!</span><span id="kobo.181.7">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.182.1">Lupin, usually so calm, so entirely master of himself, so ingenious at providing matter for his own amusement, was feverish, exultant and depressed by turns, powerless against the enemy, mistrusting everything and everybody, morose.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.184.1">The 20th of August!</span><span id="kobo.184.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.186.1">He would have wished to act and he could not. </span><span id="kobo.186.2">Whatever he did, it was impossible for him to hasten the hour of the catastrophe. </span><span id="kobo.186.3">This catastrophe would take place or would not take place; but Lupin would not know for certain until the last hour of the last day was spent to the last minute. </span><span id="kobo.186.4">Then﻿—and then alone﻿—he would know of the definite failure of his scheme.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.187.1">“The inevitable failure,” he kept on repeating to himself. </span><span id="kobo.187.2">“Success depends upon circumstances far too subtle and can be obtained only by methods far too psychological.</span><span id="kobo.187.3">﻿ ﻿… There is no doubt that I am deceiving myself as to the value and the range of my weapons.</span><span id="kobo.187.4">﻿ ﻿… And yet﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.188.1">Hope returned to him. </span><span id="kobo.188.2">He weighed his chances. </span><span id="kobo.188.3">They suddenly seemed to him real and formidable. </span><span id="kobo.188.4">The fact was going to happen as he had foreseen it happening and for the very reasons which he had expected. </span><span id="kobo.188.5">It was inevitable.</span><span id="kobo.188.6">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.189.1">Yes, inevitable. </span><span id="kobo.189.2">Unless, indeed, Shears discovered the hiding-place.</span><span id="kobo.189.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.190.1">And again he thought of Shears; and again an immense sense of discouragement overwhelmed him.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.192.1">The last day.</span><span id="kobo.192.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.193.1">He woke late, after a night of bad dreams.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.194.1">He saw nobody that day, neither the examining magistrate nor his counsel.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.195.1">The afternoon dragged along slowly and dismally, and the evening came, the murky evening of the cells.</span><span id="kobo.195.2">﻿ ﻿… He was in a fever. </span><span id="kobo.195.3">His heart beat in his chest like the clapper of a bell.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.196.1">And the minutes passed, irretrievably.</span><span id="kobo.196.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.197.1">At nine o’clock, nothing. </span><span id="kobo.197.2">At ten o’clock, nothing.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.198.1">With all his nerves tense as the string of a bow, he listened to the vague prison sounds, tried to catch through those inexorable walls all that might trickle in from the life outside.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.199.1">Oh, how he would have liked to stay the march of time and to give destiny a little more leisure!</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.200.1">But what was the good? </span><span id="kobo.200.2">Was everything not finished?</span><span id="kobo.200.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.201.1">“Oh,” he cried, “I am going mad! </span><span id="kobo.201.2">If all this were only over﻿ ﻿… that would be better. </span><span id="kobo.201.3">I can begin again, differently.</span><span id="kobo.201.4">﻿ ﻿… I shall try something else﻿ ﻿… but I can’t go on like this, I can’t go on.</span><span id="kobo.201.5">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.202.1">He held his head in his hands, pressing it with all his might, locking himself within himself and concentrating his whole mind upon one subject, as though he wished to provoke, as though he wished to create the formidable, stupefying, inadmissible event to which he had attached his independence and his fortune:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.203.1">“It must happen,” he muttered, “it must; and it must, not because I wish it, but because it is logical. </span><span id="kobo.203.2">And it shall happen﻿ ﻿… it shall happen.</span><span id="kobo.203.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.204.1">He beat his skull with his fists; and delirious words rose to his lips.</span><span id="kobo.204.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.205.1">The key grated in the lock. </span><span id="kobo.205.2">In his frenzy, he had not heard the sound of footsteps in the corridor; and now, suddenly, a ray of light penetrated into his cell and the door opened.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.206.1">Three men entered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.207.1">Lupin had not a moment of surprise.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.208.1">The unheard-of miracle was being worked; and this at once seemed to him natural and normal, in perfect agreement with truth and justice.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.209.1">But a rush of pride flooded his whole being. </span><span id="kobo.209.2">At this minute he really received a clear sensation of his own strength and intelligence.</span><span id="kobo.209.3">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.211.1">“Shall I switch on the light?” </span><span id="kobo.211.2">asked one of the three men, in whom Lupin recognized the governor of the prison.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.212.1">“No,” replied the taller of his companions, speaking in a foreign accent. </span><span id="kobo.212.2">“This lantern will do.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.213.1">“Shall I go?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.214.1">“Act according to your duty, sir,” said the same individual.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.215.1">“My instructions from the prefect of police are to comply entirely with your wishes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.216.1">“In that case, sir, it would be preferable that you should withdraw.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.217.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.218.1"> Borély went away, leaving the door half open, and remained outside, within call.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.220.1">The visitor exchanged a few words with the one who had not yet spoken; and Lupin vainly tried to distinguish his features in the shade. </span><span id="kobo.220.2">He saw only two dark forms, clad in wide motoring-cloaks and wearing caps with the flaps lowered.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.221.1">“Are you Arsène Lupin?” </span><span id="kobo.221.2">asked the man, turning the light of the lantern full on his face.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.222.1">He smiled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.223.1">“Yes, I am the person known as Arsène Lupin, at present a prisoner in the </span><span lang="fr" xml:lang="fr" id="kobo.223.2">Santé</span><span id="kobo.224.1">, cell 14, second division.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.226.1">“Was it you,” continued the visitor, “who published in the </span><i lang="fr" epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.226.2">Grand Journal</span></i><span id="kobo.227.1"> a series of more or less fanciful notes, in which there is a question of a so-called collection of letters﻿ ﻿… ?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.229.1">Lupin interrupted him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.230.1">“I beg your pardon, sir, but, before pursuing this conversation, the object of which, between ourselves, is none too clear to me, I should be much obliged if you would tell me to whom I have the honour of speaking.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.231.1">“Absolutely unnecessary,” replied the stranger.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.232.1">“Absolutely essential,” declared Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.233.1">“Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.234.1">“For reasons of politeness, sir. </span><span id="kobo.234.2">You know my name and I do not know yours; this implies a disregard of good form which I cannot suffer.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.235.1">The stranger lost patience:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.236.1">“The mere fact that the governor of the prison brought us here shows﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.237.1">“That </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.237.2">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.238.1"> Borély does not know his manners,” said Lupin. </span><span id="kobo.238.2">“</span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.239.1">M.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.240.1"> Borély should have introduced us to each other. </span><span id="kobo.240.2">We are equals here, sir: </span><span id="kobo.240.3">it is no case of a superior and an inferior, of a prisoner and a visitor who condescends to come and see him. </span><span id="kobo.240.4">There are two men here; and one of those two men has a hat on his head, which he ought not to have.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.242.1">“Now look here﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.243.1">“Take the lesson as you please, sir,” said Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.244.1">The stranger came closer to him and tried to speak.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.245.1">“The hat first,” said Lupin, “the hat.</span><span id="kobo.245.2">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.246.1">“You shall listen to me!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.247.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.248.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.249.1">“No.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.250.1">Matters were becoming virulent, stupidly. </span><span id="kobo.250.2">The second stranger, the one who had kept silent, placed his hand on his companion’s shoulder and said, in German:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.251.1">“Leave him to me.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.252.1">“Why, it was understood﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.253.1">“Hush﻿ ﻿… and go away!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.254.1">“Leaving you alone?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.255.1">“Yes.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.256.1">“But the door?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.257.1">“Shut it and walk away.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.258.1">“But this man﻿ ﻿… you know who he is.</span><span id="kobo.258.2">﻿ ﻿… Arsène Lupin.</span><span id="kobo.258.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.259.1">“Go away!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.260.1">The other went out, cursing under his breath.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.261.1">“Pull the door!” </span><span id="kobo.261.2">cried the second visitor. </span><span id="kobo.261.3">“Harder than that.</span><span id="kobo.261.4">﻿ ﻿… Altogether!</span><span id="kobo.261.5">﻿ ﻿… That’s right.</span><span id="kobo.261.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.262.1">Then he turned, took the lantern and raised it slowly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.263.1">“Shall I tell you who I am?” </span><span id="kobo.263.2">he asked.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.264.1">“No,” replied Lupin.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.265.1">“And why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.266.1">“Because I know.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.267.1">“Ah!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.268.1">“You are the visitor I was expecting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.269.1">“I?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.270.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>