<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <title>Epilogue</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section id="epilogue" role="doc-epilogue" epub:type="epilogue" class="epub-type-titlepage">
			<hgroup class="calibre13">
				<h2 class="first-child" epub:type="title"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">Epilogue</span></h2>
				<h3 role="doc-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle" class="calibre14"><span id="kobo.2.1" class="kobospan">The Suicide</span></h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.4.1">“To horse!” </span><span id="kobo.4.2">said the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.5.1">He corrected himself, on seeing the magnificent ass which they brought him:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.6.1">“To donkey, rather! </span><span id="kobo.6.2">Waldemar, are you sure this animal is quiet to ride and drive?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.7.1">“I will answer for him as I would for myself, Sire,” declared the count.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.8.1">“In that case, I feel safe,” said the Emperor, laughing. </span><span id="kobo.8.2">And, turning to the officers with him, “Gentlemen, to horse!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.9.1">The marketplace of the village of Capri was crowded with sightseers, kept back by a line of Italian carabiniers, and, in the middle, all the donkeys of the place, which had been requisitioned to enable the Emperor to go over that island of wonders.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.10.1">“Waldemar,” said the Emperor, taking the head of the cavalcade, “what do we begin with?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.11.1">“With Tiberius’s Villa, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.12.1">They rode under a gateway and then followed a roughly-paved path, rising gradually to the eastern promontory of the island.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.13.1">The Emperor laughed and enjoyed himself and good-humoredly chaffed the colossal Count von Waldemar, whose feet touched the ground on either side of the unfortunate donkey borne down under his weight.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.14.1">In three-quarters of an hour, they arrived first at Tiberius’s Leap, an enormous rock, a thousand feet high, from which the tyrant caused his victims to be hurled into the sea.</span><span id="kobo.14.2">﻿ ﻿…</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.15.1">The Emperor dismounted, walked up to the handrail and took a glance at the abyss. </span><span id="kobo.15.2">Then he went on foot to the ruins of Tiberius’s Villa, where he strolled about among the crumbling halls and passages.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.16.1">He stopped for a moment.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.17.1">There was a glorious view of the point of Sorrento and over the whole island of Capri. </span><span id="kobo.17.2">The glowing blue of the sea outlined the beautiful curve of the bay; and cool perfumes mingled with the scent of the citron-trees.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.18.1">“The view is finer still, Sire,” said Waldemar, “from the hermit’s little chapel, at the summit.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.19.1">“Let us go to it.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.20.1">But the hermit himself descended by a steep path. </span><span id="kobo.20.2">He was an old man, with a hesitating gait and a bent back. </span><span id="kobo.20.3">He carried the book in which travellers usually write down their impressions.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.21.1">He placed the book on a stone seat.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.22.1">“What am I write?” </span><span id="kobo.22.2">asked the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.23.1">“Your name, Sire, and the date of your visit﻿ ﻿… and anything you please.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.24.1">The Emperor took the pen which the hermit handed him and bent down to write.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.25.1">“Take care, Sire, take care!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.26.1">Shouts of alarm﻿ ﻿… a great crash from the direction of the chapel.</span><span id="kobo.26.2">﻿ ﻿… The Emperor turned round. </span><span id="kobo.26.3">He saw a huge rock come rolling down upon him like a whirlwind.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.27.1">At the same moment, he was seized round the body by the hermit and flung to a distance of ten yards away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.28.1">The rock struck against the stone seat where the Emperor had been standing a quarter of a second before and smashed the seat into fragments. </span><span id="kobo.28.2">But for the hermit, the Emperor would have been killed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.29.1">He gave him his hand and said, simply:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.30.1">“Thank you.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.31.1">The officers flocked round him.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.32.1">“It’s nothing, gentlemen.</span><span id="kobo.32.2">﻿ ﻿… We have escaped with a fright﻿ ﻿… though it was a fine fright, I confess.</span><span id="kobo.32.3">﻿ ﻿… All the same, but for the intervention of this worthy man﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.33.1">And, going up to the hermit:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.34.1">“What is your name, my friend?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.35.1">The hermit had kept his head concealed in his hood. </span><span id="kobo.35.2">He pushed it back an inch or so and, in a very low voice, so as to be heard by none but the Emperor, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.36.1">“The name of a man, Sire, who is very pleased that you have shaken him by the hand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.37.1">The Emperor gave a start and stepped back. </span><span id="kobo.37.2">Then, at once controlling himself:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.38.1">“Gentlemen,” he said to the officers, “I will ask you to go up to the chapel. </span><span id="kobo.38.2">More rocks can break loose; and it would perhaps be wise to warn the authorities of the island. </span><span id="kobo.38.3">You will join me later. </span><span id="kobo.38.4">I want to thank this good man.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.39.1">He walked away, accompanied by the hermit. </span><span id="kobo.39.2">When they were alone, he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.40.1">“You! </span><span id="kobo.40.2">Why?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.41.1">“I had to speak to you, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.41.2">If I had asked for an audience﻿ ﻿… would you have granted my request? </span><span id="kobo.41.3">I preferred to act directly and I intended to make myself known while Your Imperial Majesty was signing the book, when that stupid accident﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.42.1">“Well?” </span><span id="kobo.42.2">said the Emperor.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.43.1">“The letters which I gave Waldemar to hand to you, Sire, are forgeries.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.44.1">The Emperor made a gesture of keen annoyance:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.45.1">“Forgeries? </span><span id="kobo.45.2">Are you sure?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.46.1">“Absolutely sure, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.47.1">“Yet that Malreich﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.48.1">“Malreich was not the culprit.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.49.1">“Then who was?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.50.1">“I must beg Your Imperial Majesty to treat my answer as secret and confidential. </span><span id="kobo.50.2">The real culprit was </span><abbr class="calibre11"><span id="kobo.50.3">Mrs.</span></abbr><span id="kobo.51.1"> Kesselbach.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.53.1">“Kesselbach’s own wife?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.54.1">“Yes, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.54.2">She is dead now. </span><span id="kobo.54.3">It was she who made or caused to be made the copies which are in your possession. </span><span id="kobo.54.4">She kept the real letters.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.55.1">“But where are they?” </span><span id="kobo.55.2">exclaimed the Emperor. </span><span id="kobo.55.3">“That is the important thing! </span><span id="kobo.55.4">They must be recovered at all costs! </span><span id="kobo.55.5">I attach the greatest value to those letters.</span><span id="kobo.55.6">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.56.1">“Here they are, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.57.1">The Emperor had a moment of stupefaction. </span><span id="kobo.57.2">He looked at Lupin, looked at the letters, then at Lupin again and pocketed the bundle without examining it.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.58.1">Clearly, this man was puzzling him once more. </span><span id="kobo.58.2">Where did this scoundrel spring from who, possessing so terrible a weapon, handed it over like that, generously, unconditionally? </span><span id="kobo.58.3">It would have been so easy for him to keep the letters and to make such use of them as he pleased! </span><span id="kobo.58.4">No, he had given his promise and he was keeping his word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.59.1">And the Emperor thought of all the astounding things which that man had done.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.60.1">“The papers said that you were dead,” he said.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.61.1">“Yes, Sire. </span><span id="kobo.61.2">In reality, I am dead. </span><span id="kobo.61.3">And the police of my country, glad to be rid of me, have buried the charred and unrecognizable remains of my body.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.62.1">“Then you are free?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.63.1">“As I always have been.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.64.1">“And nothing attaches you to anything?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.65.1">“Nothing, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.66.1">“In that case﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.67.1">The Emperor hesitated and then, explicitly:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.68.1">“In that case, enter my service. </span><span id="kobo.68.2">I offer you the command of my private police. </span><span id="kobo.68.3">You shall be the absolute master. </span><span id="kobo.68.4">You shall have full power, even over the other police.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.69.1">“No, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.70.1">“Why not?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.71.1">“I am a Frenchman.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.72.1">There was a pause. </span><span id="kobo.72.2">The Emperor was evidently pleased with the answer. </span><span id="kobo.72.3">He said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.73.1">“Still, as you say that no link attaches you﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.74.1">“That is, one, Sire, which nothing can sever.” </span><span id="kobo.74.2">And he added, laughing, “I am dead as a man, but alive as a Frenchman. </span><span id="kobo.74.3">I am sure that Your Imperial Majesty will understand.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.75.1">The Emperor took a few steps up and down. </span><span id="kobo.75.2">Then he said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.76.1">“I should like to pay my debt, however. </span><span id="kobo.76.2">I heard that the negotiations for the grand-duchy of Veldenz were broken off.</span><span id="kobo.76.3">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.77.1">“Yes, Sire, Pierre Leduc was an imposter. </span><span id="kobo.77.2">He is dead.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.78.1">“What can I do for you? </span><span id="kobo.78.2">You have given me back those letters.</span><span id="kobo.78.3">﻿ ﻿… You have saved my life.</span><span id="kobo.78.4">﻿ ﻿… What can I do?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.79.1">“Nothing, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.80.1">“You insist upon my remaining your debtor?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.81.1">“Yes, Sire.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.82.1">The Emperor gave a last glance at that strange man who set himself up in his presence as his equal. </span><span id="kobo.82.2">Then he bowed his head slightly and walked away without another word.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.83.1">“Aha, Majesty, I’ve caught you this time!” </span><span id="kobo.83.2">said Lupin, following him with his eyes. </span><span id="kobo.83.3">And, philosophically, “No doubt it’s a poor revenge﻿ ﻿… and would rather have recovered Alsace-Lorraine.</span><span id="kobo.83.4">﻿ ﻿… But still﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.84.1">He interrupted himself and stamped his foot on the ground:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.85.1">“You confounded Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.85.2">Will you never change, will you always remain hateful and cynical to the last moment of your existence? </span><span id="kobo.85.3">Be serious, hang it all! </span><span id="kobo.85.4">The time has come, now or never, to be serious!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.86.1">He climbed the path that leads to the chapel and stopped at the place where the rock had broken loose. </span><span id="kobo.86.2">He burst out laughing:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.87.1">“It was a good piece of work and His Imperial Majesty’s officers did not know what to make of it. </span><span id="kobo.87.2">But how could they guess that I myself loosened that rock, that, at the last moment, I gave the decisive blow of the pickaxe and that the aforesaid rock rolled down the path which I had made between it and﻿ ﻿… an emperor whose life I was bent on saving?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.88.1">He sighed:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.89.1">“Ah, Lupin, what a complex mind you have! </span><span id="kobo.89.2">All that trouble because you had sworn that this particular Majesty should shake you by the hand! </span><span id="kobo.89.3">A lot of good it has done you! </span><span id="kobo.89.4">‘An Emperor’s hand five fingers has, no more,’ as Victor Hugo might have said.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.90.1">He entered the chapel and, with a special key, opened the low door of a little sacristy. </span><span id="kobo.90.2">On a heap of straw, lay a man, with his hands and legs bound and a gag in his mouth.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.91.1">“Well, my friend, the hermit,” said Lupin, “it wasn’t so very long, was it? </span><span id="kobo.91.2">Twenty-four hours at the most.</span><span id="kobo.91.3">﻿ ﻿… But I have worked jolly hard on your behalf! </span><span id="kobo.91.4">Just think, you have saved the Emperor’s life! </span><span id="kobo.91.5">Yes, old chap. </span><span id="kobo.91.6">You are the man who saved the Emperor’s life. </span><span id="kobo.91.7">I have made your fortune, that’s what I’ve done. </span><span id="kobo.91.8">They’ll build a cathedral for you and put up a statue to you when you’re dead and gone. </span><span id="kobo.91.9">Here, take your things.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.92.1">The hermit, nearly dead with hunger, staggered to his feet. </span><span id="kobo.92.2">Lupin quickly put on his own clothes and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.93.1">“Farewell, O worthy and venerable man. </span><span id="kobo.93.2">Forgive me for this little upset. </span><span id="kobo.93.3">And pray for me. </span><span id="kobo.93.4">I shall need it. </span><span id="kobo.93.5">Eternity is opening its gate wide to me. </span><span id="kobo.93.6">Farewell.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.94.1">He stood for a few moments on the threshold of the chapel. </span><span id="kobo.94.2">It was the solemn moment at which one hesitates, in spite of everything, before the terrible end of all things. </span><span id="kobo.94.3">But his resolution was irrevocable and, without further reflection, he darted out, ran down the slope, crossed the level ground of Tiberius’s Leap and put one leg over the handrail:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.95.1">“Lupin, I give you three minutes for playacting. </span><span id="kobo.95.2">‘What’s the good?’ </span><span id="kobo.95.3">you will say. </span><span id="kobo.95.4">‘There is nobody here.’ </span><span id="kobo.95.5">Well﻿ ﻿… and what about you? </span><span id="kobo.95.6">Can’t you act your last farce for yourself? </span><span id="kobo.95.7">By Jove, the performance is worth it.</span><span id="kobo.95.8">﻿ ﻿… </span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.play" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.95.9">Arsène Lupin</span></i><span id="kobo.96.1">, heroic comedy in eighty scenes.</span><span id="kobo.96.2">﻿ ﻿… The curtain rises on the death-scene﻿ ﻿… and the principal part is played by Lupin in person.</span><span id="kobo.96.3">﻿ ﻿… ‘Bravo, Lupin!’</span><span id="kobo.96.4">﻿ ﻿… Feel my heart, ladies and gentlemen﻿ ﻿… seventy beats to the minute.</span><span id="kobo.96.5">﻿ ﻿… And a smile on my lips.</span><span id="kobo.96.6">﻿ ﻿… ‘Bravo, Lupin! </span><span id="kobo.96.7">Oh, the rogue, what cheek he has!’</span><span id="kobo.96.8">﻿ ﻿… Well, jump, my lord.</span><span id="kobo.96.9">﻿ ﻿… Are you ready? </span><span id="kobo.96.10">It’s the last adventure, old fellow. </span><span id="kobo.96.11">No regrets? </span><span id="kobo.96.12">Regrets? </span><span id="kobo.96.13">What for, heavens above? </span><span id="kobo.96.14">My life was splendid. </span><span id="kobo.96.15">Ah, Dolores, Dolores, if you had not come into it, abominable monster that you were!</span><span id="kobo.96.16">﻿ ﻿… And you, Malreich, why did you not speak?</span><span id="kobo.96.17">﻿ ﻿… And you, Pierre Leduc.</span><span id="kobo.96.18">﻿ ﻿… Here I am!</span><span id="kobo.96.19">﻿ ﻿… My three dead friends, I am about to join you.</span><span id="kobo.96.20">﻿ ﻿… Oh, Geneviève, my dear Geneviève!</span><span id="kobo.96.21">﻿ ﻿… Here, have you done, you old play-actor?</span><span id="kobo.96.22">﻿ ﻿… Right you are! </span><span id="kobo.96.23">Right you are! </span><span id="kobo.96.24">I’m coming.</span><span id="kobo.96.25">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.98.1">He pulled his other leg over, looked down the abyss at the dark and motionless sea and, raising his head:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.99.1">“Farewell, immortal and thrice-blessed nature! </span><i lang="la" xml:lang="la" class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.99.2">Moriturus te salutat!</span></i><span id="kobo.100.1"> Farewell, all that is beautiful on earth! </span><span id="kobo.100.2">Farewell, splendor of things. </span><span id="kobo.100.3">Farewell, life!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.102.1">He flung kisses to space, to the sky, to the sun.</span><span id="kobo.102.2">﻿ ﻿… Then, folding his arms, he took the leap.</span></p>
			<hr class="calibre15"/>
			<p class="calibre9"><span id="kobo.104.1">Sidi-bel-Abbes. </span><span id="kobo.104.2">The barracks of the Foreign Legion. </span><span id="kobo.104.3">An adjutant sat smoking and reading his newspaper in a small, low-ceilinged room.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.105.1">Near him, close to the window opening on the yard, two great devils of noncommissioned officers were jabbering in guttural French, mixed with Teutonic phrases.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.106.1">The door opened. </span><span id="kobo.106.2">Someone entered. </span><span id="kobo.106.3">It was a slightly-built man, of medium height, smartly-dressed.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.107.1">The adjutant rose, glared angrily at the intruder and growled:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.108.1">“I say, what on earth is the orderly up to?</span><span id="kobo.108.2">﻿ ﻿… And you, sir, what do you want?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.109.1">“Service.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.110.1">This was said frankly, imperiously.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.111.1">The two noncoms burst into a silly laugh. </span><span id="kobo.111.2">The man looked at them askance.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.112.1">“In other words, you wish to enlist in the Legion?” </span><span id="kobo.112.2">asked the adjutant.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.113.1">“Yes, but on one condition.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.114.1">“Conditions, by Jove! </span><span id="kobo.114.2">What conditions?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.115.1">“That I am not left mouldering here. </span><span id="kobo.115.2">There is a company leaving for Morocco. </span><span id="kobo.115.3">I’ll join that.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.116.1">One of the noncoms gave a fresh chuckle and was heard to say:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.117.1">“The Moors are in for a bad time. </span><span id="kobo.117.2">The gentleman’s enlisting.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.118.1">“Silence!” </span><span id="kobo.118.2">cried the man, “I don’t stand being laughed at.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.119.1">His voice sounded harsh and masterful.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.120.1">The noncom, a brutal-looking giant, retorted:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.121.1">“Here, recruity, you’d better be careful how you talk to me, or﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.122.1">“Or what?”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.123.1">“You’ll get something you won’t like, that’s all!”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.124.1">The man went up to him, took him round the waist, swung him over the ledge of the window and pitched him into the yard.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.125.1">Then he said to the other:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.126.1">“Go away.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.127.1">The other went away.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.128.1">The man at once returned to the adjutant and said:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.129.1">“Lieutenant, pray be so good as to tell the major that Don Luis Perenna, a Spanish grandee and a Frenchman at heart, wishes to take service in the Foreign Legion. </span><span id="kobo.129.2">Go, my friend.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.130.1">The flabbergasted adjutant did not move.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.131.1">“Go, my friend, and go at once. </span><span id="kobo.131.2">I have no time to waste.”</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.132.1">The adjutant rose, looked at his astounding visitor with a bewildered eye and went out in the tamest fashion.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.133.1">Then Lupin lit a cigarette and, sitting down in the adjutant’s chair, said, aloud:</span></p>
			<p class="calibre12"><span id="kobo.134.1">“As the sea refused to have anything to say to me, or rather as I, at the last moment, refused to have anything to say to the sea, we’ll go and see if the bullets of the Moors are more compassionate. </span><span id="kobo.134.2">And, in any case, it will be a smarter finish.</span><span id="kobo.134.3">﻿ ﻿… Face the enemy, Lupin, and all for France!</span><span id="kobo.134.4">﻿ ﻿…”</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>