<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <title>Uncopyright</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/hyphenation.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../kte-css/stylehacks.css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="backmatter" class="calibre"><div id="book-columns"><div id="book-inner">
		<section class="epub-type-titlepage" id="uncopyright" epub:type="copyright-page">
			<h2 epub:type="title" class="calibre8"><span id="kobo.1.1" class="kobospan">Uncopyright</span></h2>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" class="epub-type-z3998-letter">
				<p class="first-child3">
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.2.1">May you do good and not evil.</span>
					<br class="calibre22"/>
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.4.1">May you find forgiveness for yourself and forgive others.</span>
					<br class="calibre22"/>
					<span class="kobo-verse-span" id="kobo.6.1">May you share freely, never taking more than you give.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="calibre28"><span id="kobo.9.1">Copyright pages exist to tell you that you </span><em class="calibre16"><span id="kobo.9.2">can’t</span></em><span id="kobo.10.1"> do something. </span><span id="kobo.10.2">Unlike them, this Uncopyright page exists to tell you that the writing and artwork in this ebook are believed to be in the United States public domain; that is, they are believed to be free of copyright restrictions in the United States. </span><span id="kobo.10.3">The United States public domain represents our collective cultural heritage, and items in it are free for anyone in the United States to do almost anything at all with, without having to get permission.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre28"><span id="kobo.12.1">Copyright laws are different all over the world, and the source text or artwork in this ebook may still be copyrighted in other countries. </span><span id="kobo.12.2">If you’re not located in the United States, you must check your local laws before using this ebook. </span><span id="kobo.12.3">Standard Ebooks makes no representations regarding the copyright status of the source text or artwork in this ebook in any country other than the United States.</span></p>
			<p class="calibre28"><span id="kobo.13.1">Non-authorship activities performed on items that are in the public domain﻿—so-called “sweat of the brow” work﻿—don’t create a new copyright. </span><span id="kobo.13.2">That means that nobody can claim a new copyright on an item that is in the public domain for, among other things, work like digitization, markup, or typography. </span><span id="kobo.13.3">Regardless, the contributors to this ebook release their contributions under the terms in the </span><a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/"><span id="kobo.13.4">CC0 1.</span><span id="kobo.13.5">0 Universal Public Domain Dedication</span></a><span id="kobo.14.1">, thus dedicating to the worldwide public domain all of the work they’ve done on this ebook, including but not limited to metadata, the titlepage, imprint, colophon, this Uncopyright, and any changes or enhancements to, or markup on, the original text and artwork. </span><span id="kobo.14.2">This dedication doesn’t change the copyright status of the source text or artwork. </span><span id="kobo.14.3">We make this dedication in the interest of enriching our global cultural heritage, to promote free and libre culture around the world, and to give back to the unrestricted culture that has given all of us so much.</span></p>
		</section>
	</div></div></body></html>