<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes 1–500</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section class="epub-type-endnotes epub-type-footnotes" id="endnotes" role="doc-endnotes" epub:type="endnotes footnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes 1⁠–⁠500</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This book, it may be as well to remind some readers, is not, as it is still often described, one of Defoe’s novels, but the genuine experiences of an English officer in Spain during the Succession War. <a href="translators-preface.xhtml#noteref-1" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p class="first-child">“I am going through <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> again, and admire it more than ever. It is certainly the best novel in the world beyond all comparison.”</p>
						<cite>—﻿Macaulay, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Life and Letters</i></cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="translators-preface.xhtml#noteref-2" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 201. In its original and correct form it is “give orders to the king”﻿—“<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">al rey mando</i>”﻿—<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, recognize no superior. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-3" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The humor of this, and indeed of the greater part of the Preface, can hardly be relished without a knowledge of the books of the day, but especially Lope de Vega’s, which in their original editions appeared generally with an imposing display of complimentary sonnets and verses, as well as of other adjuncts of the sort Cervantes laughs at. Lope’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Isidro</i> (1599) had ten pieces of complimentary verse prefixed to it, and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Hermosura de Angelica</i> (1602) had seven. Hartzenbusch remarks that Aristotle and Plato are the first authors quoted by Lope in the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Peregrino en su Patrin</i> (1604).</p>
					<p>Who the two or three obliging friends may have been is not easy to say. Young Quevedo, who had just then taken his place in the front rank of the poets of the day, was, no doubt, one; Espinel may have been another; and Jáuregui might have been the third. Cervantes had not many friends among the poets of the day. His friendships lay rather among those of the generation that was dying out when <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> appeared. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-4" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Aesop, “Fable of the Dog and the Wolf.” <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-5" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The distich is not Cato’s, but Ovid’s; but Hartzenbusch points out that there is a distich of Cato’s beginning <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">Cum fueris felix</i> which Cervantes may have originally inserted, substituting the other afterwards as more applicable. Lope de Vega’s second name was Felix, and Hartzenbusch thinks the quotation was aimed at him. The Cato is, of course, Dionysius Cato, author of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Disticha de Moribus</i>. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-6" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the “Index of Proper Names” to Lope’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arcadia</i> there is a description of the Tagus in very nearly these words. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-7" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Bishop of Mondoñedo was Antonio de Guevara, in whose epistles the story referred to appears. The introduction of the Bishop and the “creditable reference” is a touch after Swift’s heart. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-8" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Author of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Dialoghi di Amore</i>, a Portuguese Jew, who settled in Spain, but was expelled and went to Naples in 1492. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-9" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amor di Dios</i>, by Cristobal de Fonseca, printed in 1594. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-10" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“By all that’s good”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Voto á tal</i>﻿—one of the milder forms of asseveration used as a substitute on occasions when the stronger <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Voto á Dios</i> might seem uncalled for or irreverent; an expletive of the same nature as “Egad!” “Begad!” or the favorite feminine exclamation, “Oh my!” “By all that’s good” has, no doubt, the same origin. Of the same sort are, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Voto á Brios</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Voto á Rus</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cuerpo de tal</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Vida de tal</i>, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> The last two correspond to our “Od’s body,” “Od’s life.” <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-11" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">gracioso</i> was the “droll” of the Spanish stage. Cervantes repeatedly uses the word to describe Sancho, and, as here, alludes to his <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">gracios</i> or drolleries. <a href="preface-1.xhtml#noteref-12" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">All translators, I think, except Shelton and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Duffield, have entirely omitted these preliminary pieces of verse, which, however, should be preserved﻿—not for their poetical merits, which are of the slenderest sort, but because, being burlesques on the pompous, extravagant, laudatory verses usually prefixed to books in the time of Cervantes, they are in harmony with the aim and purpose of the work, and also a fulfilment of the promise held out in the Preface. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-13" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Or more strictly “the unrecognized”; a personage in Amadís of Gaul somewhat akin to Morgan la Fay and Vivien in the Arthur legend, though the part she plays is more like that of Merlin. She derived her title from the faculty which, like Merlin, she possessed of changing her form and appearance at will. The verses are assigned to her probably because she was the adviser of Amadís. They form a kind of appendix to the author’s Preface. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-14" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 15. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-15" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Duke of Béjar, to whom the book was dedicated. The Zuñiga family, of which the Duke was the head, claimed descent from the royal line of Navarre. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-16" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“<i class="xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">Le donne, i cavalieri, l’arme, gli amori</i>” <cite>—﻿<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furioso</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">i</span> 1.</cite> This is one of many proofs that the Orlando of Ariosto was one of the sources from which Cervantes borrowed. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-17" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Figures,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> picture cards. The allusion to vain emblems on the shield is a sly hit at Lope de Vega, whose portrait in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arcadia</i>, and again in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Rimas</i> (1602), has underneath it a shield bearing nine castles surrounded by an orle with ten more. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-18" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This refers to the querulous and egotistic tone in which dedications were often written. Álvaro de Luna was the Constable of Castile and favorite of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, beheaded at Valladolid in 1450. Francis <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> of France was kept a prisoner at Madrid by Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span> for a year after the battle of Pavia. The last four lines of the stanza are almost verbatim from verses by Fray Domingo de Guzman written as a gloss upon some lines carved by the poet Fray Luis de Leon on the wall of his cell in Valladolid, where he was imprisoned by the Inquisition. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-19" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Juan Latino, a self-educated negro slave in the household of the Duke of Sesa, who gave him his freedom. He was for sixty years Professor of Rhetoric and Latin at Granada, where he died in 1573. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-20" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In allusion to Don Quixote’s penance in the Sierra Morena. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-21" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr>V.</abbr> <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-35">note 35</a>. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-22" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Oriana, the heroine of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís of Gaul</i>. Her castle Miraflores was within two leagues of London. Shelton in his translation puts it at Greenwich. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-23" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Rustic kiss and cuff”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">buzcorona</i>﻿—a boorish practical joke the point of which lay in inducing some simpleton to kiss the joker’s hand, which as he stoops gives him a cuff on the cheek. The application here is not very obvious, for it is the person who does homage who receives the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">buzcorona</i>. It is not clear who is meant by the Spanish Ovid; some say Cervantes himself; others, as Hartzenbusch, Lope de Vega. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-24" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Motley poet”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Poeta entreverado</i>. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Entreverado</i> is properly “mixed fat and lean,” as bacon should be. Commentators have been at some pains to extract a meaning from these lines. The truth is they have none, and were not meant to have any. If it were not profanity to apply the word to anything coming from Cervantes, they might be called mere pieces of buffoonery, mere idle freaks of the author’s pen. The verse in which they are written is worthy of the matter. It is of the sort called in Spanish <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">de pies cortados</i>, its peculiarity being that each line ends with a word the last syllable of which has been lopped off. The invention has been attributed to Cervantes, but the honor is one which no admirer of his will be solicitous to claim for him, and in fact there are half a dozen specimens in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Picara Justina</i>, a book published if anything earlier than <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. I have here imitated the tour de force as well as I could, an experiment never before attempted and certainly not worth repeating. The “Urganda” verses are written in the same fashion, but I did not feel bound to try the reader’s patience﻿—or my own﻿—by a more extended reproduction of the puerility. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-25" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Celestina, or Tragicomedy of Calisto and Meliboea</i> (1499), the first act of which is generally attributed to Rodrigo Cota, the remaining nineteen being by Fernando Rojas. There is no mention in it of “Villadiego the Silent;” the name only appears in the proverbial saying about “taking the breeches of Villadiego,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> beating a hasty retreat. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-26" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Babieca, the famous charger of the Cid. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-27" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-28" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An allusion to the charming little novel of Lazarillo de Tormes, and the trick by which the hero secured a share of his master’s wine. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-28" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-29" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The play upon the word “Peer” is justified by Orlando’s rank as one of the Twelve Peers. This sonnet is pronounced “truly unintelligble and bad” by Clemencín, and it is, it must be confessed, very feeble and obscure. I have adopted a suggestion of Hartzenbusch’s which makes somewhat better sense of the concluding lines, but no emendation can do much. Nor are the remaining sonnets much better; there is some drollery in the dialogue between Babieca and Rocinante, but the sonnets of the Knight of Phoebus and Solisdan are weak. There was no particular call for Cervantes to be funny, but if he thought otherwise it would have been just as well not to leave the fun out. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-29" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-30" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Knights of Phoebus or of the Sun﻿—Caballero del Febo, Espejo de Principes y Caballeros</i>﻿—a ponderous romance by Diego Ortuñez de Calahorra and Marcos Martinez, in four parts, the first printed at Saragossa in 1562, the others at Alcalá de Henares in 1580. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-30" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-31" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Solisdan is apparently a name invented by Cervantes, for no such personage figures in any known book of chivalry. <a href="epigraph.xhtml#noteref-31" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-32" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="translators-preface.xhtml#about-cervantes-and-don-quixote-p-30">here</a>. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-32" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-33" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The national dish, the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">olla</i>, of which the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">puchero</i> of Central and Northern Spain is a poor relation, is a stew with beef, bacon, sausage, chickpeas, and cabbage for its prime constituents, and for ingredients any other meat or vegetable that may be available. There is nothing exceptional in Don Quixote’s <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">olla</i> being more a beef than a mutton one, for mutton is scarce in Spain except in the mountain districts. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Salpicon</i> (salad) is meat minced with red peppers, onions, oil, and vinegar, and is in fact a sort of meat salad. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Duelos y quebrantos</i>, the title of the Don’s Saturday dish, would be a puzzle even to the majority of Spanish readers were it not for Pellicer’s explanation. In the cattle-feeding districts of Spain, the carcasses of animals that came to an untimely end were converted into salt meat, and the parts unfit for that purpose were sold cheap under the name of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">duelos y quebrantos</i>﻿—“sorrows and losses” (literally “breakings”) and were held to be sufficiently unlike meat to be eaten on days when flesh was forbidden, among which in Castile Saturday was included in commemoration of the battle of Navas de Tolosa. Any rendering of such a phrase must necessarily be unsatisfactory, and in adopting “scraps” I have, as in the other cases, merely gone on the principle of choosing the least of evils. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-33" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-34" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The first passage quoted is from the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Chronicle of Don Florisel de Niqaea</i>, by Feliciano de Silva, the volumes of which appeared in 1532, 1536, and 1551, and from the tenth and eleventh books of the Amadís series. The second is from <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Olivante de Laura</i>, by Torquemada (1564). Clemencín points out that the first passage had been previously picked out as a sample of the absurdity of the school, by Diego Hurtado de Mendoza. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-34" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-35" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The History of Don Belianis de Grecia</i>, by the Licentiate Jerónimo Fernández, 1547. It has been by some included in the Amadís series, but it is in reality an independent romance. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-35" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-36" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Sigüenza was one of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">Universidades menores</i>, the degrees of which were often laughed at by the Spanish humorists. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-36" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-37" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Spanish tradition of the battle of Roncesvalles is, of course, at variance with the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Chanson de Roland</i>, but it is somewhat nearer historical truth, inasmuch as the slaughter of Roland and the rearguard of Charlemagne’s army was effected not by Saracens, but by the Basque mountaineers. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-37" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-38" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Ganelon, the arch-traitor of the Charlemagne legend. In Spanish he appears as Galalon, in Italian as Gano; but in this as in the cases of Roland, Baldwin, and others, I have thought it best to give the name in the form in which it is best known, and will be most readily recognized, instead of Roldan, Valdovinos, <abbr>etc.</abbr> <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-38" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-39" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Like Reinaldos or Rinaldo, who came to be Emperor of Trebizond. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-39" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-40" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">That is, a simple headpiece without either visor or beaver. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-40" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-41" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An untranslatable pun on the word <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">quarto</i>, which means a sand-crack in a horse’s hoof, as well as the coin equal to one-eighth of the real. Gonela, or Gonnella, was a jester in the service of Borso, Duke of Ferrara (1450﻿–﻿1470). A book of the jests attributed to him was printed in 1568, the year before Cervantes went to Italy. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-41" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-42" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Rocín</i> is a horse employed in labor, as distinguished from one kept for pleasure, the chase, or personal use generally; the word therefore may fairly be translated “hack.” <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Ante</i> is an old form of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Antes</i>﻿—“before,” whether in time or in order. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-42" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-43" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Quixote</i>﻿—or, as it is now written, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Quijote</i>﻿—means the piece of armor that protects the thigh (<i class="xml-lang" lang="osp" xml:lang="osp">cuissan</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="osp" xml:lang="osp">cuish</i>). Smollett’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Sir Lancelot Greaves</i> is a kind of parody on the name. Quixada and Quesada were both distinguished family names. The Governor of the Goletta, who was one of the passengers on board the unfortunate <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Sol</i> galley, was a Quesada; and the faithful majordomo of Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span> and guardian of Don John of Austria was a Qixada. <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-43" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-44" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Properly “blank” armour, but Don Quixote takes the word in its common sense of white. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-44" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-45" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Flamante</i>. Shelton translates “burnished,” and Jervas “flaming,” but the secondary meaning of the word is “new,” “fresh,” “unused.” <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-45" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-46" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Campo de Montiel was “famous” as being the scene of the battle, in 1369, in which Pedro the Cruel was defeated by his brother Henry of Trastamara supported by Du Gueselin. The actual battlefield, however, lies some considerable distance to the south of Argamasilla, on the slope of the Sierra Morena, near the castle of Montiel in which Pedro took refuge. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-46" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-47" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the later romances of chivalry, a sage or a magician or some such personage was frequently introduced as the original source of the history. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-47" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-48" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In Spain there are at least half a dozen varieties of inns each with its distinctive name. In <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> the inn is almost always the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venta</i>, the solitary roadside inn where travellers of all sorts stop to bait; and it has remained to this day much what Cervantes has described. The particular <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venta</i> that he had in his eye in this and the next chapter is said to be the Venta de Quesada, about 2½ leagues north of Manzanares, on the Madrid and Seville road. The house itself was burned down about a century ago, and has been rebuilt, but the yard at the back with its draw-well and stone trough are said to remain as they were in his day. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-48" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-49" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The commentators are somewhat exercised by the contradiction here. If Don Quixote raised his visor and disclosed his visage, how was it that the girls were unable “to make out the features which the clumsy visor obscured”? Cervantes probably was thinking of the makeshift pasteboard visor (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">mala visera</i>, as he calls it), which could not be put up completely, and so kept the face behind it in the shade. Hartzenbusch, however, believes the words to have been interpolated, and omits them. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-49" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-50" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Sano de Castilla</i>﻿—a slang phrase from the Germanía dialect for a thief in disguise (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">ladron disimilado</i>﻿—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Vocabulario de Gemiania de Hidalgo</i>). “Castellano” and “alcaide” both mean governor of a castle or fortress, but the former means also a Castilian. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-50" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-51" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The lines quoted by Don Quixote and the host are, in the original:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="es">
						<p class="first-child">
							<span>“Mis arreos son las armas,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i1">Mi descanso el pelear,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Mi cama, las duras peñas,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i1">Mi dormir, siempre velar.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>They occur first in the old, probably fourteenth century, ballad of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.music" xml:lang="es">Moriana en un Castillo</i>, and were afterwards adopted as the beginning of a serenade. In England it would be a daring improbability to represent the landlord of a roadside alehouse capping verses with his guest out of <i epub:type="se:name.music">Chevy Chase</i> or <i epub:type="se:name.music">Sir Andrew Barton</i>, but in Spain familiarity with the old national ballad-poetry and proverbs is an accomplishment that may, even to this day, be met with in quarters quite as unpromising. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-51" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-52" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A parody of the opening lines of the ballad of <i epub:type="se:name.music">Lancelot of the Lake</i>. Their chief attraction for Cervantes was, no doubt, the occurrence of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rocino</i> (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rocín</i>) in the last line. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-52" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-53" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The original has, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">la visera alzada</i>, “the visor up,” in which case Don Quixote would have found no difficulty in feeding himself. Hartzenbusch suggests <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">babera</i>, beaver, which I have adopted, as it removes the difficulty, and is consistent with what follows; when the landlord “poured wine into him” it must have been <em>over</em> the beaver, not <em>under</em> the visor. <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml#noteref-53" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-54" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Pothouse”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venteril</i>, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> such as only a <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venta</i> could produce. <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-54" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-55" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The localities here mentioned were, and some of them still are, haunts of the rogue and vagabond, or, what would be called in Spain, the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">picaro</i> class. The Curing-grounds of Málaga was a place outside the town where fish was dried; “the Isles of Riarán” was the slang name of a low suburb of the same city; the Precinct (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">compas</i>) of Seville was a district on the river side, not far from the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">plaza de toros</i>; the Little Market of Segovia was in the hollow spanned by the great aqueduct on the south side of the town; the Olivera of Valencia was a small plaza in the middle of the town; the “Rondilla of Granada” was probably in the Albayein quarter; the “Strand of San Lúcar” and the “Taverns of Toledo” explain themselves sufficiently; and the “Colt of Cordova” was a district on the south side of the city, which took its name from a horse in stone standing over a fountain in its centre. As Fermín Caballero says in a queer little book called the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Geographical Knowledge of Cervantes</i>, it is clear that Cervantes knew by heart the “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mapa picaresco de España</i>.” <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-55" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-56" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">blanca</i>, a coin worth about one-seventh of a farthing. <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-56" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-57" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The passage as it stands is sheer nonsense. Clemencín tries to make sense of it by substituting “less” for “more”; but even with that emendation it remains incoherent. Probably what Cervantes meant to write and possibly did write was﻿—“for that was another still more important matter, because,” <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-57" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-58" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">That is, inflicting two cuts that formed a cross. <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-58" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-59" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An old plaza in Toledo, so called probably from a family of the name of Ben Haya; or, as Pellicer suggests, from a corruption of Minaya. <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-59" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-60" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> “the Milleress.” <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#noteref-60" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-61" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Labrador</i>, the word used here to describe the status of Sancho, means, generally, a tiller of the soil, and includes farmers employing laborers, like Juan Haldudo the Rich, who is so described lower down, as well as those who tilled their land themselves or worked for others. Sancho was one of the latter class, as appears from a remark of his own in the Second Part. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-61" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-62" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes now and then in dialogue does not specify the speaker, but the omissions are so rare that they are probably oversights, and I have generally supplied them. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-62" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-63" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Haldudos</i>﻿—wearers of long skirts. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-63" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-64" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 112. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-64" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-65" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Perfumed”﻿—a way of expressing completeness or perfection of condition. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-65" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-66" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An obscure oath, of which there is no satisfactory explanation as to who or what Roque was, whether the San Roque who gave the name to the town near Gibraltar, or some Manchegan celebrity. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-66" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-67" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Not passages of the book, but passages of arms like that of Suero de Quiñones on the bridge of Orbigo in the reign of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-67" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-68" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It is strange that this passage should have escaped the notice of those ingenious critics whose mania it is to hunt for hidden meanings in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. With a moderate amount of acumen it ought to be easy to extract from these words a manifest “covert attack” on Church, Faith, and Dogma. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-68" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-69" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Alcarria is a bare, thinly populated district, in the upper valley of the Tagus, stretching from Guadalajara to the confines of Aragón. Estremadura is the most backward of all the provinces of Spain. In elevating these two regions into the rank of empires, the waggish trader falls in with the craze of Don Quixote. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-69" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-70" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 114. The ball, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, that on which it is wound. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-70" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-71" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Civet was the perfume most in request at the time, and was imported packed in cotton. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-71" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-72" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mas derecho que un huso</i>﻿—“straighter than a spindle”﻿—is a popular phrase in use to this day. The addition of “Guadarrama” Clemencín explains by saying that spindles were made in great quantities of the beech wood that grew on the Guadarrama Sierra. Fermín Caballero (<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Pericia Geográfica de Cervantes</i>) holds that the reference is to the pine trees on the Guadarrama Pass. <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#noteref-72" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-73" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The subject of the old ballad﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.music" xml:lang="es">De Mantua Salió el Marques</i> (Duran’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Romancero General</i>, <abbr>No.</abbr> 355); a <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">chanson de geste</i>, indeed, rather than a ballad, as it runs to something over 800 lines. Pellicer wrongly assigns it to Geronimo Trevifio, a sixteenth century author. It is in the Antwerp <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Cancionero</i> of 1550 and the Saragossa <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Silva</i> of the same date. <a href="chapter-1-5.xhtml#noteref-73" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-74" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">From the words used by Cervantes he seems to have known or suspected that Montemayor was not the author of the romantic story of Abindarráez and Xarifa. It was inserted in the second edition of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Diana</i>, the year of the author’s death, and it had previously appeared as a separate novel at Toledo. <a href="chapter-1-5.xhtml#noteref-74" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-75" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original the passage runs: “Who was even still sleeping. He asked the niece for the keys,” <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> It is a minor instance of Cervantes’ disregard of the ordinary laws of composition, and also a proof that at this stage of the work he had not originally contemplated a division into chapters. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-75" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-76" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The romances of chivalry were, with not more than two or three exceptions, produced in the folio form, while the hooks of poetry, the pastorals, the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">cancioneros</i>, and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">romanceros</i>, were either in small quarto or much more commonly in small octavo corresponding in size with our duodecimo. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-76" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-77" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The court the niece speaks of, was the patio or open space in the middle of the house; the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">corral</i> or yard was on the outside. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-77" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-78" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The curate was quite correct in his idea that <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís of Gaul</i> was the parent of the chivalry literature, but not in his statement that it was the first book of the kind printed in Spain, for it is not likely it was printed before <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Tirant lo Blanch</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Oliveros de Castilla</i>, or the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Carcel de Amor</i>. The earliest known edition was printed in Rome in 1519, but there can be no doubt that this is a reprint of a Spanish edition, of perhaps even an earlier date than 1510, which has been given as that of the first edition. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-78" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-79" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Las Sergas</i> (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> <i class="xml-lang" lang="el" xml:lang="el">ιας ἔργα</i>﻿—the achievements) <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">De Esplandián</i> (1521) forms the fifth book of the Amadís Series, and is the composition of Montalvo himself, as is also, apparently, the fourth book of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís of Gaul</i>. He only claims to have edited the first three. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-79" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-80" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís of Greece</i>, by Feliciano de Silva (1535), forms the ninth book of the Amadís Series. Pintiquiniestra was Queen of Sobradisa, and Darinel was a shepherd and wrestler of Alexandria. The Spanish romances of “the lineage of Amadís” are twelve in number, and there are besides doubtful members of the family in Italian and French. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-80" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-81" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Olivante de Laura</i>, by Antonio de Torquemada, appeared first at Barcelona in 1564. Gayangos suggests that Cervantes must have been thinking of a later quarto or octavo edition, for the original folio is not so exceptionally stout as the description in the text implies. The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Garden of Flowers</i> (1575), a treatise of wonders natural and supernatural, was translated into English in 1600 as <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Spanish Mandeville</i>, a title which may seem to justify the curate’s criticism; but it does not come with a good grace from Cervantes, who made free use of the book in the First Part of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Persiles and Sigismunda</i>, and in the Second Part of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. The book is really an entertaining one. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-81" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-82" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The correct title is <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Historia del muy Animoso y Esforzado Principe Felixmarte de Hircania</i>, but the hero is also called Florismarte. It was by Melchor Ortega de Úbeda, and appeared in 1556. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-82" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-83" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Platir</i> is the fourth book of the Palmerín Series. The hero is the son of Primaleon, and grandson of Palmerín de Oliva. Its author is unknown. It appeared first in 1533. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-83" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-84" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Knight of the Cross</i> appeared in two parts: the first, under the title of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Lepolemo</i>, by an unknown author, in 1543; the second, with the achievements of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Leandro el Bel</i>, the son of Lepolemo, by Pedro de Luxan, in 1563. “Behind the Cross,” <abbr>etc.</abbr>, Proverb 75, was evidently a favorite proverb with Cervantes. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-84" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-85" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Mirror of Chivalry</i>﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Espejo de Caballerias</i>﻿—was published at Seville in four parts, 1533﻿–﻿50. Next to the history of Charlemagne and the Twelve Peers, it was the most popular of the Carlovingian series of romances. It is creditable to Cervantes as a critic that he should have mentioned Boiardo as he does, at a time when it was the fashion to regard the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Innamorato</i> as a rude and semi barbarous production, only endurable in the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rifacimento</i> of Ludovico Domenichi. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-85" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-86" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An Oriental mode of showing respect for a document. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-86" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-87" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Geronimo Jiménez de Urrea, whose translation of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Ariosto</i> into Spanish was first printed at Antwerp in 1549. This is not the only passage in which Cervantes declares against translation. In <a href="chapter-2-62.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">LXII</span> of the Second Part</a> he puts his objection still more strongly, and there extends it to translation of prose. And yet of all great writers there is not one who is under such obligations to translation as Cervantes. The influence of Homer and Virgil would be scarcely less than it is if they had never been translated; Shakespeare and Milton wrote in a language destined to become the most widely read on the face of the globe, and no reader of any culture needs an interpreter for Molière or Le Sage. But how would Cervantes have fared in the world if, according to his own principles, he had been confined to his native Castilian? <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-87" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-88" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The condemned books are the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">History of the Deeds of Bernardo del Carpio</i>, by Augustin Alonso of Sahimanca (Toledo, 1585); and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Famous Battle of Roncesvalles</i> by Francisco Garrido de Villena (Valencia, 1555). <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-88" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-89" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Palmerín de Oliva</i>, the founder of the Palmerín Series of Romances, was first printed at Salamanca in 1511. It is said to have been written by a lady of Augustobriga (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> Burgos, according to some, but more probably Ciudad Rodrigo), but nothing certain is known of the author. <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Palmerín de Inglaterra</i>, like <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i>, was until lately supposed to be, as Cervantes supposed it, of Portuguese origin; but the question was settled a few years ago by Vincente Salvá, who discovered a Toledo edition of 1547, twenty years earlier than the Portuguese edition on which the claims of Francisco de Moraes, or of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, rested. An acrostic gives the name of the author, Luis Hurtado. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-89" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-90" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Miraguarda is not the name of the Castle, but of the lady who lived in it, and whose charms were the cause of the adventures. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-90" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-91" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Belianis de Grecia</i>, already mentioned in the first chapter as one of Don Quixote’s special studies. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-91" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-92" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “overseas term” was the allowance of time granted in the case of persons beyond the seas, when sued or indicted, to enable them to appear and show cause why judgment should not be given against them. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-92" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-93" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Tirante el Blanco</i> is the title of the translation into Castilian of the romance of <i class="xml-lang" lang="pt" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="pt">Tirant lo Blanch</i>, first published in Valencian at Valencia in 1490. Joanot Martorell, who is said to have translated it from English into Portuguese and thence into Valencian, was no doubt the author. Only three copies are known to exist, one in the University at Valencia, another in the College of the Sapienza in Rome, and the third in the British Museum. The Castilian version appeared at Valladolid in 1511. Don Pascual de Gayangos is in doubt whether the curate’s eulugy is to be taken as ironical or serious, but rather inclines to the belief that Cervantes meant to praise the book. It would be rash to differ with such an authority, otherwise I should say that the laudation is rather too boisterously expressed and too like the extravagant eulogy of Lo Frasso farther on, to be sincerely meant. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-93" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-94" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Los Siete Libros de la Diana de Jorge de Montemayor. Impreso en Valencia, 4to</i>. The first edition is undated, and from the dedication appears to have been printed in the author’s lifetime. He died in 1561, in which year the second edition, with additions, appeared. (See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-55">this note</a>.) The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Diana</i> was the first and best of the Spanish pastoral romances, the taste for which was created by Sannazaro’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arcadia</i>. The Salamancan was Alonso Pérez, who published a continuation of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Diana</i> at Alcalá de Henares in 1564, but Gil Polo’s, printed the same year at Valencia, has been generally preferred. The pun on Polo and Apolo is not so obvious in English. An excellent English translation of all three by Bartholomew Yong was published in 1598. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-94" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-95" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">The Fortuna d’Amor, por Antonio de lo Frasso, Militar, Sardo</i>, appeared at Barcelona in 1573. In the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Viage del Parnaso</i> Cervantes treats the book in the same bantering strain, which misled Pedro de Pineda, one of the editors of Lord Carteret’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Quixote</i>, and induced him to bring out a new edition in 1740. The book is an utterly worthless one, and highly prized by collectors. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-95" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-96" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The books here referred to are the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Pastor de Iberia</i>, by Bernardo de la Vega (Seville, 1591); the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Nimphas y Pastores de Henares</i>, by Bernardo González de Bovadilla (Alcalá de Henares, 1587); and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Desengaño de Zelos</i>, by Bartolme Lopes de Enciso (Madrid, 1586). <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-96" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-97" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Pastor de Filida</i> (Madrid, 1582), one of the best of the pastorals, was by Luis Galvez de Montalvo of Guadalajara, a retainer of the great Mendoza family, and apparently an intimate personal friend of Cervantes, who, under the name of Tirsi, is referred to in the pastoral as a <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">clarissimo ingennio</i> worthy of being mentioned with Ercilla. Montalvo, in return, is introduced under the name of Siralvo into the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Galatea</i> of Cervantes, to which he contributed a complimentary sonnet. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-97" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-98" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Tesoro de varias Poesias, compuesto por Pedro de Padilla</i> (Madrid, 1580). The author is one of those praised by Cervantes in the “Canto de Caliope” in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Galatea</i>. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-98" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-99" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">López de Maldonado, whose <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Cancionero</i> appeared at Madrid in 1586, is another of the poets praised in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Galatea</i>. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-99" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-100" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 26. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-100" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-101" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The play upon words in the original is “more versed in misfortunes than in verses.” This introduction of himself and his forgotten pastoral is Cervantes all over in its tone of playful stoicism with a certain quiet self-assertion. It shows, moreover, pretty clearly, that until <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> had made the author’s name known, the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Galatea</i> had remained unnoticed. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-101" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-102" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">These three are examples of Spanish epic poetry. The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Araucana</i> of Ercilla (Madrid, 1569, 1578, 1590) is, next to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Poem of the Cid</i>, the best effort in that direction in the language. The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Austriada</i>, which appeared first at Madrid in 1584, deals with the life and achievements of Don John of Austria, but it was probably the memory of Lepanto rather than the merits of the poem that made Cervantes give it a place here. The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Montserrate</i> of the dramatist Virues (Madrid, 1588) had for its subject the repulsive Oriental legend which became popular in Spain with Garin the liermit of Monserrat for its hero, and which <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M. G.</abbr> Lewis made the foundation of his famous romance, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Monk</i>. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-102" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-103" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The anticlimax here almost equals that famous one of Waller’s:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child">
							<span>“Under the tropic is our language spoke,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And part of Flanders hath received our yoke.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>The book referred to was entitled simply the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Angelica</i> by Luis Barahona de Soto (Madrid, 1586). In his praise of this poem we have one more instance of Cervantes’ loyalty to a friend getting the better of his critical judgment. <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#noteref-103" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-104" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The books referred to are the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Carolea</i> of Geronimo Sempere (1560), which deals with the victories of Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>; the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">León de España</i>, by Pedro de la Vezilla, a poem on the history of the city of León; and, probably, the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Carlo Famoso</i> of Louis Zapata, for there is no book known with the title of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Deeds of the Emperor</i> and the work of Avila is simply a prose commentary on the wars against the Protestants of Germany. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-104" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-105" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Turpin (or Tilpin), Charlemagne’s chaplain, and Archbishop of Rheims: according to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Chanson de Roland</i>, one of those slain at Roncesvalles; but also claimed as author of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Chronicle of Charlemagne</i>, which, however, was probably not composed before the end of the eleventh or beginning of the twelfth century. He died in the year of the Roncesvalles rout, 778. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-105" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-106" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 188. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-106" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-107" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 165. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-107" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-108" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Fristón, a magician, the reputed author of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Belianis de Grecia</i>. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-108" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-109" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 171. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Buscar pan de trastrigo</i>: there is some difference of opinion as to the meaning of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">trastrigo</i>, but it seems on the whole more probable that it means wheat of such superlative quality as to be unattainable; at any rate, the proverb is used in reference to seeking things that are out of reach. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-109" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-110" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 124. A very old proverb, as old at least as the poem of Fernán González. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-110" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-111" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Alforjas</i>﻿—a sort of double wallet serving for saddlebags, but more frequently carried slung across the shoulder. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-111" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-112" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">bota</i> is the leathern wine-bag which is as much a part of the Spanish wayfarer’s paraphernalia as the alforjas. It cannot, of course, be properly translated “bottle.” <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-112" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-113" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Amadís, for instance, made his squire Gandalin governor of the Insula Firme. <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-113" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-114" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mi oislo</i>, a sort of pet-name for a wife in old Spanish among the lower orders:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="es">
						<p class="first-child">
							<span>“Acuerda de su oislo</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Mirando en pobre casa.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#noteref-114" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-115" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">These famous windmills had not been very long set up, and owed their existence to the failure of water-power in the Zancara, an affluent of the Guadiana, about thirty years before Don Quixote was written. They are scattered over the plain between Alcázar de <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S.</abbr> Juan and Villaharta. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-115" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-116" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Being a stage on the great high road from Madrid to Seville. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-116" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-117" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">From <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">machucar</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">machacar</i>, “to pound.” The feat referred to by Don Quixote was performed at the siege of Jerez under Alfonso <span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span> in 1264, and is the subject of a spirited ballad which Lockhart has treated with even more than his usual freedom. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-117" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-118" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the ballad it is an olive tree, but the olive does not flourish in La Mancha, so Don Quixote substitutes oak, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">encina</i>, or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">roble</i>, the former, the evergreen, being rather the more common in Spain. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-118" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-119" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the humurous tract <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Book of All Things, and Many More</i>, Quevedo mentions as the chief characteristic of the Biscayan dialect that it changes the first person of the verb into the second. This may be observed in the specimen given here: another example of Biscayan will be found in Cervantes’ interlude of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Viscaino Fingido</i>. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-119" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-120" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Caballero</i> means “gentleman” as well as knight, and the peppery Biscayan assumes that Don Quixote has used the word in the former sense. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-120" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-121" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Quien ha de llevar el gato al agua?</i> (Proverb 102.) “Who will carry the cat to the water?” is a proverbial way of indicating an apparently insuperable difficulty. Between rage and ignorance the Biscayan, it will be seen, inverts the phrase. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-121" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-122" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Agrajes was the cousin and companion of Amadís of Gaul. The phrase quoted above (Proverb 4) became a popular one, and is introduced as such among others of the same sort by Quevedo in the vision of the “<span class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Visita de los Chistes</span>.” It is hard to say why it should have been fixed on Agrajes, who does not seem to use it as often as others, Amadís himself for instance. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-122" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-123" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The abrupt suspension of the narrative and the reason assigned are in imitation of devices of the chivalry-romance writers. Montalvo, for instance, breaks off in the ninety-eighth chapter of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Esplandián</i>, and in the next gives an account of the discovery of the sequel, very much as Cervantes has done here and in the next chapter. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-123" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-124" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes divided his first volume of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> into four parts, possibly in imitation of the four books of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i> of Montalvo; but the chapters were numbered without regard to this division, which he also ignored in 1615, when he called his new volume “Second” instead of “Fifth” Part. <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#noteref-124" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-125" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Instead of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">azotes</i> (whips) Clemencín suggests <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">azores</i> (hawks), and refers to <a href="chapter-2-30.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span> Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></a>, where a hawk in hand is especially mentioned as the usual accompaniment of a noble lady on horseback. <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-125" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-126" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alcaná, a marketplace in Toledo in the neighborhood of the cathedral. <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-126" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-127" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Hebrew. <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-127" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-128" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. A.</abbr> Condé suggested that Ben Engeli﻿—“son of the stag”﻿—is the Arabic equivalent of the name “Cervantes,” the root of which he assumed to be <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">ciervo</i>. Cervantes <em>may</em>, of course, have intended what Conde attributes to him, but the name in reality has nothing to do with <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">ciervo</i>, and comes from Servando. (See <a href="translators-preface.xhtml#about-cervantes-and-don-quixote-p-6">here</a>.) <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-128" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-129" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Panza</i> = “paunch:” <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Zancas</i> = “shanks;” but in spite of what Cervantes says, we hear no more of Sancho’s long shanks, for which the reader will be grateful. It would have been difficult to realize a long-legged Sancho. <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-129" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-130" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A curious instance of the carelessness with which Cervantes wrote and corrected, if, indeed, he corrected at all: of course he meant the opposite of what he said﻿—that truth was the mother of history. <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#noteref-130" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-131" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Santa Hermandad, a tribunal established in the thirteenth century, but revived in the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, with summary jurisdiction over offenders against life and property on the highways and outside of the municipal boundaries. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-131" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-132" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Omecillo</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">hornecillo</i> was an old form of the word <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">homecidio</i>, but in popular parlance it meant the fine imposed in default of appearance to answer a charge of assault and battery. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-132" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-133" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Fierabras, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">Fier à Bras</i> = “Arm-strong,” a giant in Nicolás de Piamonte’s history of Charlemagne and the Peers. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-133" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-134" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">tres azumbres</i>. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-134" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-135" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Mambrino, a Moorish king in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando</i> of Boiardo, whose enchanted helmet was won by Rinaldo. It was Dardinel, however, not Sacripante, to whom it cost so dear. (<abbr>V.</abbr> <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Ariosto</i>, <abbr>c.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xviii</span>, <abbr>st.</abbr> 151.) <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-135" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-136" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Albraca, a stronghold of Galafron, King of Cathay and father of Angelica. The siege is one of the incidents in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando</i> of Boiardo. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-136" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-137" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, take knight-errantry off its hinges. <a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#noteref-137" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-138" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Waterwheel”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">noria</i>﻿—a machine used for irrigation in Spain, by which the water is raised in pots or buckets attached to the circumference of a large wheel. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-138" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-139" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The eulogy of the golden age is one of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">loci classici</i> of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> quoted in every Spanish anthology; the reader, however, must not judge of it by translation, which can not give the stately roll and flow of the original Castilian. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-139" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-140" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Water is almost worshipped in thirsty Spain, and many a complimentary epithet bestowed upon it that sounds odd under moister skies: <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">agua muy rica</i>﻿—“very rich water”﻿—is a common encomium from a Spaniard after a hearty pull at the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">alcarraza</i>. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-140" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-141" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Clemencín and Hartzenbusch, why I know not, object to <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">se decoraban</i> the reading of the original editions, and the latter substitutes <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">se declaraban</i>. I venture to think the original reading admits of the interpretation I have given. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-141" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-142" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the Spanish, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rabel</i>, a small three-stringed lute of Moorish origin. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-142" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-143" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Antonio’s ballad is in imitation of a species of popular poetry that occupies nearly as large a space as the romantic and historical ballads in the old <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">romanceros</i>. These gay, naive, simple lays of peasant life and love are as thoroughly national and peculiar to Spain as the historical ballads themselves, and in every way present a striking contrast to the artificial pastoral sonnets and canciones of Italian importation. The imitation of this kind of poetry was a favorite pastime with the poets of the Spanish Augustan age, and strange to say the poet who showed the lightest touch and brightest fancy in these compositions, and caught most happily the simplicity and freshness of the originals, was Góngora, whose name is generally associated with poetry the exact opposite of this in every particular. Cervantes apparently valued himself more upon his sonnets and artificial verses; a preference regretted, I imagine, by most of his readers. This ballad has been hardly treated by the translators. The language and measures used by Shelton and Jervas are about as well adapted to represent a Spanish popular lyric as a dray-horse to draw a pony-chaise. The measure of the original is the ordinary ballad measure, an eight-syllable trochaic, with the assonant rhyme in the second and fourth lines. The latter peculiarity I have made no attempt to imitate here, but examples of it will be found farther on. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-143" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-144" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Coyundas</i>, the cords or thongs by which the horns of the draught oxen are bound to the yoke. <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#noteref-144" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-145" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Pulse”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">garbanzos</i>, or chickpeas, one of the invariable constituents of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">olla</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">puchero</i>, and therefore an important crop in Spain. <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#noteref-145" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-146" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Plays”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">autos</i>, religious allegorical dramas. <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#noteref-146" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-147" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mas viejo que sarna</i>﻿—(Proverb 250) “older than itch”﻿—is a very old popular phrase. Don Quixote, either not knowing it or else not recognizing it in the form in which Pedro puts it, supposes him to mean Sarah the wife of Abraham. Though Cervantes tries to observe dramatic propriety by making Pedro blunder, in the end he puts into his mouth language as fine and words as long as Don Quixote’s. <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#noteref-147" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-148" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Frankness”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">desengaño</i>﻿—more properly “undeceiving,” but there is no equivalent word in English. <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#noteref-148" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-149" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Perhaps the reader will think Sancho had some justification; an epidemic of verbosity, indeed, rages round the corpse of the unhappy Chrysostom; but it must be remembered verbosity was then rampant in literature and especially in Spanish literature, as all who know <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman de Alfarache</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Picara Justina</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Marcos de Obregon</i>, and books of the same sort, will own; and if Cervantes did not wholly escape it, his fits of it were only occasional. <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#noteref-149" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-150" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The ballad (<i epub:type="se:name.music">Cancionero de Romances</i>, Antwerp, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.A.</abbr>, and Duran, <abbr>No.</abbr> 352) is that parodied by Don Quixote in <a href="chapter-1-2.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></a>. “Britain” is, of course, Brittany; Lancelot’s father, King Ban, was a Breton. The idea of the “go-between” is derived from an Italian source, but the name Quintañona is Spanish; it means simply an old woman, one who has a quintal, or hundredweight of years on her back. The transformation of Arthur into a raven is also a Southern addition to the Arthurian legend. Cervantes ridicules the story in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Persiles and Sigismunda</i>. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-150" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-151" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 106. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-151" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-152" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“Nessum la mova</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Che star non possa con Orlando prova.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>—﻿<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furioso</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxiv</span>, 57</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>But Zerbino’s inscription was simply “Armatura d’Orlando Paladino,” and the quotation is merely the poet’s gloss upon it. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-152" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-153" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cachopín</i>, or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Gachupín</i>, a word of Indian origin, and applied to Spaniards living in or returned from the Indies. Laredo is a seaport close to Santander, where also the Cachopins were numerous, as appears from a quaint inscription on one of the houses quoted by Bowle. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-153" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-154" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Hartzenbusch in his anxiety for precision alters this, as he considers that El Toboso, being about seven leagues from Argamasilla, cannot be properly described as “near” it. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-154" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-155" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It is hardly necessary to observe that these high mountains in the neighborhood of Argamasilla are purely imaginary. The nearest that could by any stretch of courtesy be called high would be those of the Toledo Sierra some sixty or seventy miles distant. <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-155" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-156" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This is one of the passages selected by Biedermann as specimens of blunders made by Cervantes, but by <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">en memoria</i> Cervantes does not mean to “commemorate,” but rather to “mark” or “signalize.” <a href="chapter-1-13.xhtml#noteref-156" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-157" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">There is here a play upon the words <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">desesperados</i>, “despairing,” and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">no esperados</i>, “not looked for:” many of the headings to the chapters contain some verbal conceit of this kind. <a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-157" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-158" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “Lay of Chrysostom” must not be judged of by a translation. The original is not so much a piece of poetry, as a fantasia in rhyme and an experiment in versification. Whether Italian or Spanish, the <i class="xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">canzone</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">canción</i> is from its style hard to translate into our matter-of-fact English, but the difficulty here is increased by the peculiarly complex stanza and intricate system of interlaced rhymes which Cervantes adopted, as well as by the inimitable rhythm and harmony of the lines. One peculiarity, borrowed, it may be, from Garcilaso, is that of a line with a medial rhyme to the termination of the preceding line, which produces a cadence that falls upon the ear like that of waves upon a distant shore. It might be possible to imitate the arrangement of rhymes, but to imitate the effect or reproduce the melody in our consonantal language would be an utter impossibility. <a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-158" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-159" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p class="first-child">“And the hoarse sobbing of the widowed dove.”</p>
						<cite>—﻿Drummond of Hawthornden</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-159" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-160" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The owl was the only bird that witnessed the Crucifixion, and it became for that reason an object of envy to the other birds, so much so that it can not appear in the daytime without being persecuted. <a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-160" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-161" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Betis﻿—<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> the Guadalquivir. <a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-161" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-162" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It was the corpse of Servius Tullius that was so treated by his daughter Tullia, the wife of Tarquin, but Cervantes followed an old ballad in the <i epub:type="se:name.music">Flor de Enamorados</i>, which has, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.music" xml:lang="es">Tullia hija de Tarquino</i>. <a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#noteref-162" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-163" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> of Yanguas, a district in the north of Old Castile, near Logroño. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-163" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-164" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Used by the carriers in loading their beasts to prop up the pack on one side while they are adjusting the balance on the other. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-164" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-165" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An allusion probably to the story of Diego Pérez de Vargas, “the pounder.” (See <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span></a>) <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-165" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-166" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Sancho’s blunder in the name of Fierabras is droller in the original, as he says, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">del feo Blas</i>, “of the ugly Blas.” <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-166" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-167" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">There is no account of any such flogging in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i>. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-167" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-168" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Tizon was the name of one of the Cid’s two famous swords; the word was altered into Tizona to suit the trochaic rhythm of the ballads. It means simply “brand.” <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-168" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-169" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In this characteristic comment of Sancho’s, Hartzenbusch corrects <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">caballero andante</i>﻿—“knight-errant”﻿—into <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">caballeria andante</i>﻿—“horse-errant” (entirely overlooking the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">también</i>﻿—“too”), and with profound gravity reminds us that Rocinante is a horse. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. P.</abbr> Collier’s “old corrector” in the 1632 folio Shakespeare could hardly do worse than this. The play upon the words <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">sin costas</i> and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">sin costillas</i> cannot be rendered literally; <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">sin costillas</i>﻿—“without ribs”﻿—means also in popular parlance bankrupt, “cleaned out.” <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-169" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-170" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Thebes; but that of the hundred gates was the Egyptian, not the Boeotian Thebes, which is the one here referred to. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-170" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-171" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The grave drollery of Sancho’s matter-of-fact reply is lost in translation, inasmuch as in Spanish “to go mounted”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">ir caballero</i>﻿—implies also “to go like a gentleman.” <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-171" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-172" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This is another example of the loose construction and confusion into which Cervantes fell at times. Of course he meant to say that Rocinante would not have been behind them in complaining. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-172" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-173" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The entrance of a Spanish <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venta</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">posada</i> is almost always a wide gateway through which both man and beast enter to their respective quarters. The high road﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">camino real</i>﻿—was the Madrid and Seville road, and on it, or some little distance one side or the other of it, all the adventures of the First Part are supposed to take place. From its distance from the Sierra Morena this <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">venta</i> would be somewhere near Valdepeñas, in the great wine-growing district. The scene of the release of the galley slaves in <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXII</span></a> would be near Almuradiel. <a href="chapter-1-15.xhtml#noteref-173" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-174" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 6. <a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#noteref-174" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-175" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Estrellado</i> seems to have puzzled most of the translators. Shelton omits it, and Jervas renders it “illustrious.” <a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#noteref-175" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-176" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The carrier business, Pellicer points out, was extensively followed by the Moriscoes, as it afforded them an excuse for absenting themselves from Mass. <a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#noteref-176" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-177" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Crónica de Tablante de Ricamonte</i>, a romance of uncertain date and origin, based upon the Arthurian legend. The Conde Tomillas was a personage at the Court of Charlemagne mentioned in the Montesinos ballads, but no book of his deeds is known. <a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#noteref-177" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-178" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">We were told just before that Sancho was unable to sleep. <a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#noteref-178" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-179" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The words quoted are the beginning of one of the Cid ballads, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Por el val de las estacas.</i>” <a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#noteref-179" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-180" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Nevertheless Orlando in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Morgante Maggiore</i> is called upon to leave his horse in pledge for his reckoning. <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book"><abbr>Morg. Magg.</abbr></i> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXI</span> <abbr>st.</abbr> 129. <a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#noteref-180" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-181" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cornado, a coin of infinitesimal value, about one-sixth of a maravedi. <a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#noteref-181" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-182" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “Fair” was a low quarter in Seville. <a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#noteref-182" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-183" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“The roome was high-roofed and fitted for their purpose.﻿ ﻿… They began to blanket me and to toss me up in the air as they used to doe to dogges at Shrovetide.” <cite>—﻿Aleman’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman de Alfarache</i>, Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> Book <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> (James Mabbe’s translation).</cite> As the First Part of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman</i> was published in 1599, it may have suggested the scene to Cervantes. <a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#noteref-183" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-184" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbial expression (47)﻿—“<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Andar de Ceca en Meca y de zoca en colodra</i>”﻿—somewhat like our phrase, “from post to pillar.” The Ceca (properly a mint or a shrine) was the name given to part of the Great Mosque of Cordova, once second to Mecca only as a resort of pilgrims. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Zoca</i> properly means a wooden shoe, but here a vessel hollowed out of wood. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-184" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-185" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Amadís of Greece, not Amadís of Gaul. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-185" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-186" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The word in the original is <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">cuajada</i>﻿—“curdled”﻿—which Clemencín objects to as obscure, and would replace by <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">causada</i>﻿—“caused.” <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-186" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-187" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Suero de Quiñones, the hero of the “Paso Honroso” at the bridge of Orbigo in 1434, used to fight against the Moors with his right arm bare. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-187" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-188" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Rastrear</i> means properly to track by following the footprints, and hence to keep close to the ground; the motto, therefore, is probably meant to have a double signification, either “in Fortune’s footsteps” or “my fortune creeps on the ground,” in allusion to the asparagus, which is a low-growing plant. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-188" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-189" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">From Tartessus, a city of Betica, supposed to have been situated somewhere in the neighborhood of Tarifa. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-189" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-190" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In part of its course through La Mancha the Guadiana flows underground. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-190" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-191" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</span></a>. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-191" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-192" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Andreas Laguna, who translated Dioscorides into Spanish with copious notes in 1570. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-192" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-193" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 125. <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#noteref-193" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-194" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Camino real</i>﻿—one of the main roads connecting the provinces or chief cities with the capital. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-194" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-195" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Maskers wearing shirts (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">camisas</i>) over their clothes, who marched in procession carrying torches on festival nights. As there is no English translation of the word, it is better to give the Spanish instead of some roundabout descriptive phrase. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-195" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-196" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A quibble on the words <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">derecho</i> and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">tuerto</i> which mean “straight” and “crooked,” as well as “right” and “wrong.” <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-196" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-197" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The original has “for such I <em>always</em> believed,” <abbr>etc.</abbr>, which is an obvious slip, either of the pen or of the press. It can not be that Cervantes intended a side blow at ecclesiastics, for he expressly disclaims any such intention, and the “you” clearly refers to these particular processionists alone. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-197" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-198" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It has been frequently objected that <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">figura</i> does not mean the face or countenance, but the whole figure; but no matter what dictionaries may say, it is plain from what follows that Sancho applies the word here to his master’s <em>face</em>, made haggard by short commons and loss of teeth, and uses it as synonymous with <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">cara</i>; and that Don Quixote himself never could have contemplated painting a full-length on his shield, but merely a face. As a matter of fact, however, the dictionaries do not support the objection. The two best, that of the Academy and of Vicente Salvá, explain <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">figura</i> as the “external form of a body,” and add that it is commonly used for the face alone, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">por solo el rostro</i>. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-198" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-199" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Referring to the apochryphal legend which forms the subject of the ballad, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">A concilio dentro en Roma.</i>” Among Lockhart’s ballads there is a lively version of it. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-199" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-200" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 147. <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#noteref-200" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-201" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “watered the satisfaction.” <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-201" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-202" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 179. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-202" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-203" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 50. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-203" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-204" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Horn Sancho refers to is the constellation of Ursa Minor, which has somewhat the shape of a curved hunting horn, and the hour was calculated by extending the arms horizontally so as to represent a cross, the time being indicated by the relative position of the horn to the arms. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-204" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-205" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 96. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-205" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-206" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Caton Censorino﻿—Cato the Censor; but Sancho’s impression was that the name was derived from <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">zonzo</i>, “stupid,” or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">zonzorrion</i>, “a blockhead.” <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-206" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-207" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 198. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-207" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-208" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The story of the passage of the goats is a very old one. It is the 30th of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Cento Norelle Antiche</i>, into which it was imported, no doubt, from the Latin of the Aragonese Jew, Pedro Alfonso. There is a Provençal tale to the same effect; but the original was probably Oriental. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-208" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-209" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An “old Christian” was one who had no trace of Moorish blood in his veins. The remark is somewhat inconsistent in the mouth of Cid Hamete Benengeli. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-209" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-210" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 53. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-210" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-211" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 130. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-211" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-212" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “Insula Firme” was apparently part of Brittany. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-212" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-213" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <abbr>Rev.</abbr> John Bowie, the learned editor and annotator of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>, was painstaking enough to verify this statement. It shows how closely Cervantes must have at one time read the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i>. <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-213" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-214" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 34. In full it is, “Whether the pitcher hits the stone, or the stone the pitcher, it’s bad for the pitcher.” <a href="chapter-1-20.xhtml#noteref-214" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-215" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 194. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-215" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-216" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 160. In full, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Plegue a Dios que orégano sea, y no se nos vuelva alcaravea.</i>”﻿—“Pray God it may prove wild marjoram, and not turn out caraway on us.” Shelton and Jervas not knowing the proverb have mistranslated the passage; the latter shirks the difficulty, and the former translates <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">orégano</i> “a purchase of gold.” <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-216" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-217" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mal-andante</i>, meaning also “unlucky.” <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-217" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-218" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The eight-real piece = about 1s. 8d. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-218" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-219" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 10. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-219" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-220" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A blunder of Sancho’s for Mambrino. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-220" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-221" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">mutatio capparum</i> was the change of hoods authorized by the Roman ceremonial, when the cardinals exchanged the fur-lined hoods worn in winter for lighter ones of silk. There is a certain audacity of humor in the application of the phrase here. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-221" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-222" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes gives here an admirable epitome, and without any extravagant caricature, of a typical romance of chivalry. For every incident there is ample authority in the romances. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-222" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-223" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Hartzenbusch, considering “adventure” unintelligible, would substitute “enigma” or “prophecy” for it; and “explain” for “achieve;” but absolute consistency in a burlesque passage like this is scarcely worth insisting upon. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-223" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-224" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">hidalgo de devengar quinientos sueldos</i>,” was one who by the ancient fueros of Castile had a right to recover 500 sueldos for an injury to person or property. This is the common explanation; Huarte, in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Examen de Ingenios</i>, says it means the descendant of one who enjoyed a grant of 500 sueldos for distinguished services in the field. The sueldo was an old coin varying in value from a halfpenny to three-halfpence. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-224" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-225" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 107. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-225" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-226" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 212. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mas vale salto de mata que ruego de hombres buenos.</i>” <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Mata</i> is here an old equivalent of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">matanza</i> = “slaughter;” in modern Spanish the word means a bush or hedge, in consequence of which the proverb is generally misunderstood and mistranslated. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-226" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-227" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 210. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-227" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-228" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 61. See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-190">this note</a>. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-228" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-229" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally “at the Court”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">la Corte</i>. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-229" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-230" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">No doubt Pedro Telloz Giron, third Duke of Osuna, afterwards Viceroy in Sicily and Naples; “a little man, but of great fame and fortunes,” as Howell, writing twenty years later, calls him. <a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml#noteref-230" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-231" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Gurapas</i> a word from the “Germanía,” or rogue’s dialect, of which there are many specimens in this chapter and scattered through <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. Indeed, Juan Hidalgo’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Vocabulario</i> of the Germanía tongue is absolutely necessary to anyone reading the book in the original. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-231" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-232" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 32. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-232" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-233" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 126. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-233" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-234" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Malefactors were commonly whipped in this way, and the ceremony is frequently alluded to in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Picaresque</i> novels. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-234" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-235" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 186. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-235" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-236" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 79. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-236" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-237" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">At the time Cervantes was writing the only book of the kind (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> picaresque fiction) that had appeared besides <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Lazarillo de Tormes</i> was Aleman’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman de Alfarache</i>, at which, it has been suggested, this passage is aimed. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-237" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-238" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb. 53. Clemencín thinks that there is an allusion here to Aleman’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman de Alfarache</i>, the hero of which is sent to the galleys like Ginés de Pasamonte, and at an inn on the road ingratiates himself with the commissary by presenting him with a pig he had stolen. But Clemencín forgot that this incident occurs in the <em>Second</em> Part of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Guzman</i>, which was not published till after Don Quixote. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-238" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-239" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb. 103. Of course it should be “five;” and the proverb is so given by Blasco de Garay. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-239" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-240" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">At the beginning of the chapter we were told there were only two on horseback, and that both of them had muskets. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-240" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-241" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">To pray for “the intention” of another is a proof of devotional sympathy. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-241" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-242" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb. 180. <a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#noteref-242" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-243" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb. 246. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-243" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-244" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">These are towns of La Mancha, though from the wording of the passage it might be supposed that they lay on the other, the Andalusian, side of the Sierra Morena. It is significant that Cervantes always speaks of “entering” and “coming out of” the Sierra Morena, never of ascending or descending it; and, in fact, on the north side the Sierra rises but little above the level of the great Castilian plateau and the road enters the gorge of Despeñaperros, and reaches the Andalusian slope with comparatively little ascent. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-244" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-245" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Dapple,” as I have said elsewhere, is not a correct translation of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rucio</i>, but it has by long usage acquired a prescriptive right to remain the name of Sancho’s ass. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Rucio</i> is properly a light or silvery gray, as <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">pardo</i> is a dark or iron gray.</p>
					<p>The passage﻿—beginning at “That night they reached the very heart,” <abbr>etc.</abbr>, and ending with “returned thanks for the kindness shown him by Don Quixote”﻿—does not appear in the first edition, in which there is no allusion to the loss of the ass until the middle of <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXV</span></a>, where, without any explanation of how it happened, Cervantes speaks of Dapple as having been lost. When the second edition was in the press, an attempt was made to remedy the oversight, and the printer, apparently <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">proprio motu</i>, supplied this passage. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span></a>, where Don Quixote laments the loss of his “good sword,” suggested Ginés de Pasamonte as the thief, and <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXV</span></a> the promise of the ass-colts; but in such a bungling manner was the correction made that the references to the ass as if still in Sancho’s possession (nine or ten in number) were left unaltered, though the first of them occurs only four or five lines after the inserted passage. In the third edition of 1608 some of these inconsistencies were removed, and in the Second Part Cervantes refers to the matter, and charges the printer with the blunder. What he originally intended, no doubt, was to supplement the burlesque of the penance of Amadís by a burlesque of Brunello’s theft of Sacripante’s horse and Marfisa’s sword at the siege of Albracca, as described by Boiardo and Ariosto; and it was very possibly an afterthought written on a loose leaf and so mislaid or lost <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">in transitu</i>. The inserted passage is clearly not his, as it is completely ignored by him in chapters <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">III</a>, <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</a>, and <a href="chapter-2-27.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">XXVII</a> of Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, and is inconsistent with the account of the affair which he gives there. Hartzenbusch removes the passage to what he conceives to be its proper place in Chapter <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXV</span></a>, but it is hardly worth while, perhaps, to alter the familiar arrangement of the next. See notes on <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXC</span></a>; and <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">III</a>, <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</a>, and <a href="chapter-2-27.xhtml" epub:type="z3998:roman">XXVII</a> of Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-245" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-246" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Poltinos</i>, “ass-colts,” has evidently been omitted here in the original, and I have therefore supplied it. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-246" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-247" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This sonnet Cervantes afterwards inserted in his comedy of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Casa de los Zelos</i>, a proof that he himself had as good an opinion of it as Don Quixote; though Clemencín says, and not without some reason, that “it is no great things”﻿—“<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">no vale gran cosa.</i>” <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-247" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-248" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A reference to the proverb, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Por el hilo se saca el ovillo</i>﻿—“by the thread (or clew) the ball is drawn out.” In the sonnet the lady’s name is Fili, which Sancho mistakes for <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">hilo</i> or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">filo</i>. The substitution of “Chloe” by which the play on the words may be imitated is a happy idea of Jervas’s which has been generally adopted by subsequent translators without any acknowledgment. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-248" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-249" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 182﻿—meaning, I don’t want a thing that has any inconvenience attached to it. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-249" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-250" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This is the explanation commonly given of the phrase <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">de ambar</i>, and it is true that scented doublets were in fashion in the sixteenth century; but it seems somewhat improbable that a tattered doublet which had been for six months exposed to all weathers would have retained sufficient perfume to be detected. <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-250" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-251" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This indicates that the spot Cervantes had in his eye was somewhere above the head of the Despeñaperros gorge and commanding a view of the valley of the Guadalquivir; and the scenery there agrees with his description. He was, no doubt, familiar with it from having passed through it on his journeys between Madrid and Seville in the years between 1587 and 1598. The broom, mentioned farther on, is very abundant in this part of the Sierra Morena. The name of Cardenio, too, was probably suggested by Venta de Cardenas, a halting place at the mouth of the gorge. <a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml#noteref-251" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-252" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Grande de España</i>﻿—one enjoying the privilege of remaining covered in the presence of the sovereign. <a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml#noteref-252" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-253" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cordova was famed for its horses. <a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml#noteref-253" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-254" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This is an example of the clumsy manner in which Cervantes often constructed his sentences, beginning them in one way and ending them in another. <a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml#noteref-254" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-255" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Aesop. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-255" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-256" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Sancho in his aptitude for blunders takes “Elisabad” to be the name of some <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">abad</i> or abbot. There are three Madasimas mentioned in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i> but not one of them is a queen, nor has Master Elisabad anything to do with any of them. He was in the service of the lady Grasinda, and by her orders attended Amadís when wounded. Scott, in the article on the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i> in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Edinburgh Review</i>, suggests that Cervantes must have meant Queen Briolania, apparently confounding her also with Grasinda. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-256" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-257" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 170. This is the first of Sancho’s frequent volleys of random proverbs. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-257" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-258" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 247. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-258" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-259" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 55. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-259" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-260" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 73. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-260" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-261" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 226: <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">estacas</i>﻿—literally, stakes or pegs on which to hang them; expressive of unreasonable expectations. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-261" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-262" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 195. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-262" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-263" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Beltenebros</i>, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> “fair-obscure.” Clemencín suggests that the Peña Pobre (so called because those who sojourned there had to live in extreme poverty) was Mont <abbr>St.</abbr> Michel, but Jersey would suit the description better, as it is said to be seven leagues from the coast of the Insula Firme, which was clearly the mainland of Brittany or Normandy. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-263" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-264" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Probably an allusion to the “green tree” and the “dry.” <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-264" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-265" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original it is “for more than four days,” to which some commentators, Hartzenbusch among them, object, as not more than one day had passed since the encounter with the barber. But “more than four” is a very common phrase to express indefinitely a considerable number, and it is more probably used here vaguely by Sancho in the sense in which I have rendered it. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-265" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-266" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">For the character of Orlando’s insanity, see the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Orlando Furioso</i>, canto <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxiii</span> <abbr>st.</abbr> 130 et seq. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-266" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-267" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The hippogriff was the winged horse on which Astolfo went in quest of information about Orlando. Frontino was the name of the destroyer of Ruggiero, Bradamante’s lover. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-267" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-268" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Corn in Spain is not threshed, as we understand the word, but separated from the ear by means of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">trilla</i>, a sort of toothless harrow, which is dragged over it as it lies on the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">era</i> or threshing floor. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-268" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-269" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The introduction here of the name of his own heroine, Galatea, may be taken for what it is worth as a contradiction of the story that by Galatea he meant the mother of his daughter Isabel. An ingenious speculator might suggest that his object was to soothe the susceptibilities of his wife Doña Catalina, but it is clear that there were no heartburnings on that score in the household of Cervantes. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-269" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-270" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proof of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">hidalguia</i> was necessary before some orders, that of Santiago for instance, could be conferred. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-270" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-271" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 219. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-271" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-272" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rubrica</i>, or flourish, which is always a part of a Spanish signature. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-272" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-273" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Zapatetas</i>, capers in which the sole of the shoe is struck with the hand. <a href="chapter-1-25.xhtml#noteref-273" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-274" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Properly a “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">blanca</i> pin,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, of the size sold for a blanca, or half a inaravedi, as we say a “tenpenny nail.” Viardot, strangely misinterpreting the very common idiom <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">de á</i>, indicating the price of an article, and fancying the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">á</i> to have a negative power as in Greek, explains it as “a pin made of some substance not white.” <a href="chapter-1-26.xhtml#noteref-274" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-275" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“Occhi avea neri, e chioma crespa d’oro:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Angel parea di quei del sommo coro.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Orlando Furioso</i> <abbr>c.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xviii</span> <abbr>st.</abbr> 166</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>But Medoro was not in the service of Agramante, but in that of Dardinel; and a little higher up Cervantes has made another slip of memory, for it was not Orlando, but Ferrau who wore the</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“sette piastre fatte a buone tempre.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Orlando Furioso</i> <abbr>c.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xii</span> <abbr>st.</abbr> 48</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1-26.xhtml#noteref-275" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-276" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It is thus the passage stands in the first edition. In the second Don Quixote makes his rosary with oak galls off a cork tree. The alteration was made, no doubt, at the suggestion of some critics who thought the passage indecorous, but Cervantes had nothing to do with it. <a href="chapter-1-26.xhtml#noteref-276" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-277" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In its ingenuity of rhyme and versification and its transcendent absurdity this is the best piece of humorous verse in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. Even Clemencín, who generally grumbles at the verses of Cervantes, cannot help giving it a word of praise. It is, of course, impossible in English translation to do more than suggest the character of the original, for anything like close imitation is unattainable. <a href="chapter-1-26.xhtml#noteref-277" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-278" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Spanish phrase is stronger﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">hasta los higados</i>﻿—“down to the liver.” <a href="chapter-1-26.xhtml#noteref-278" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-279" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Wamba, a king of the Gothic line who reigned from 672 to 680. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-279" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-280" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A curious reason for giving a verbal answer; but if she did not know how to read, <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">a fortiori</i> she could not write. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-280" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-281" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cortesanos</i>: not courtiers, but persons who have caught the tone, tastes, and culture of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">La Corte</i>, “the Court,” as the capital was always called. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-281" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-282" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">These are intended to be echo verses; but, as Clemencín has pointed out, the echoes are nothing but rhymes. In the novel of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Ilustre Fregona</i>, Cervantes introduced similar verses, which Lope de Vega turned into ridicule in a parody. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-282" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-283" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Notwithstanding Clemencín’s disparaging remark that this is “of the same stuff” as Cervantes’ sonnets are commonly composed of, it will be seen, even in translation, that there is at least a backbone here, while the serious sonnets of Cervantes are only too often little better than invertebrate twaddle. Translation, however, can not reproduce the exquisite melody of the original, and, had it no other merit, this alone would, <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">pace</i> Clemencín, entitle the sonnet to a place among the best in the Spanish language. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-283" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-284" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Ganelon or Galalon, who betrayed Roland and the Peers at Roncesvalles; Vellido Dolfos, who treacherously slew Sancho <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> at the siege of Zamora in 1072; and Count Julian, who admitted the Arabs into Spain to revenge himself upon Roderic. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-284" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-285" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-105">this note</a> on the original division into parts. <a href="chapter-1-27.xhtml#noteref-285" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-286" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This looks as if some doubt had crossed the mind of Cervantes as to the propriety of introducing these tales and episodes. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-286" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-287" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A cloth cap, something like a travelling cap in make, worn by the peasants of Central Spain. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-287" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-288" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-265">this note</a>. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-288" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-289" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cristianos viejos rancios</i>: <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rancio</i> is applied to anything, like bacon or wine, that has acquired a peculiar flavor from long keeping. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-289" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-290" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “hidalgos and even caballeros:” “hidalgo” being a gentleman by birth, “caballero” one by social position or standing. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-290" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-291" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 133. <a href="chapter-1-28.xhtml#noteref-291" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-292" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 222. <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-292" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-293" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “I am sucking my fingers.” Shelton and Jervas translate literally, and so miss the meaning. <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-293" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-294" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the immediate neighborhood of Alcalá de Henares. <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-294" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-295" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">I have followed here the suggestion of Fernández Cuesta, for the reading in the original edition is obviously corrupt. <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-295" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-296" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The original says “two leagues,” but the context shows it must have been at least thrice as far. <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-296" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-297" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Clemencín and Hartzenbusch point out that to let the fly loose “among the honey” would be worse for him than for it, and the latter, giving a quotation in point from Francisco de Rojas, substitutes “the bear.” <a href="chapter-1-29.xhtml#noteref-297" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-298" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This was the mark from which the ancestor of the Dukes of Medinaceli, Fernando de la Cerda, took his name. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-298" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-299" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This is a sly hit of Cervantes at Mariana the historian, who makes the troops despatched against Viriatus land at Orsuna, now Osuna. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-299" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-300" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes seems to have intended that Ginés de Pasamonte should carry off Don Quixote’s sword, as Brunello did Marfisa’s at the siege of Albracca. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-300" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-301" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 60. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Pedir cotufas en el golfo</i>﻿—a proverbial expression for seeking impossibilities. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cotufa</i>, according to Salvá, is equivalent to <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">golosina</i>﻿—a dainty: Clemencín says it is the same as <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Chufa</i> the tuber of the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Cyparus esculentus</i>, used as an ingredient in horchata, and in other ways. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-301" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-302" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 33. In full it is, “the pitcher that goes often to the well leaves behind either the handle or the spout.” <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-302" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-303" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 177. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-303" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-304" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A reference to the proverb “<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Por el hilo se saca el ovillo</i>” (114). This passage down to “Sancho thanked him,” like that describing the theft of the ass, was first inserted in Juan de la Cuesta’s second edition. This, however, seems to be Cervantes’ own work, as it agrees with <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span></a>. The printer, no doubt, did not see its relevancy, and therefore omitted it in the first edition. <a href="chapter-1-30.xhtml#noteref-304" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-305" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The division here is very awkwardly managed: Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXI</span> ought to have commenced at “While they were holding this conversation,” in the preceding chapter. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-305" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-306" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 176. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-306" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-307" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A popular phrase like “Well, that’s settled.” <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-307" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-308" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Albricias</i>, from the Arabic <i class="xml-lang" lang="ar" xml:lang="ar">al bashara</i>, a reward given to the bearer of good news. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-308" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-309" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 135, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> a good thing may be acceptable even out of its proper season, as after Easter the weather may be still cold enough to make sleeves comfortable. <abbr>Cf.</abbr> the Scotch proverb, “A Yule feast may be done at Pasch.” <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-309" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-310" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alluding to a common device of the gypsy dealers to improve the pace of a beast for sale. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-310" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-311" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 167. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-311" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-312" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 21. Sancho, as he almost always does when it is long, makes a muddle of the proverb: the correct form is, “Who has good and chooses evil, let him not complain of the evil that comes to him.” <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-312" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-313" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-46">this note</a>. <a href="chapter-1-31.xhtml#noteref-313" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-314" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “Rids us of a thousand gray hairs.” <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-314" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-315" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Cirongilio de Tracia</i> was by Bernado de Vargas and appeared at Seville in 1545: for <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Felixmarte de Hircania</i> see <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-63">this note</a>. The title of the third is <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Crónica del Gran Capitan Gonzalo Hernández de Cordoba y Aguilar</i>, to which is added the life of Diego García de Paredes, written by himself. It appeared at Saragossa in 1559. Gonzalo, the reader need hardly be reminded, was the brilliant general whose services against the Moors at Granada and the French in Naples were so ungratefully repaid by Ferdinand. García de Paredes was Gonzalo’s companion-in-arms in both campaigns. His battered corselet in the Armería at Madrid is as good as a ballad. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-315" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-316" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">montante</i> marvellous specimens of which may be seen in the Armería at Madrid. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-316" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-317" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Neither of these feats is mentioned in the memoir of García Paredes appended to the life of the Great Captain. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-317" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-318" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Made by cutting away part of the pod so as to expose the upper bean which looks something like a friar’s head in the recess of his cowl. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-318" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-319" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 181. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-319" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-320" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 252. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-320" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-321" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Curious Impertinent</i>, Shelton’s barbarous translation of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Curioso Impertinente</i>, is something worse than nonsense, for <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Curioso</i> is here a substantive. There is, of course, no concise English translation for the title; the nearest approach to one would be, perhaps, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Inquisitive Man Who Had No Business to Be So</i>. <a href="chapter-1-32.xhtml#noteref-321" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-322" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Estaciones</i>﻿—attendances at church for private devotion at other hours than those of the celebration of the Mass. Among the scenes of the Italian and Spanish tales of intrigue the church plays a leading part. <a href="chapter-1-33.xhtml#noteref-322" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-323" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.” <cite>—﻿Proverbs 31:10</cite> <a href="chapter-1-33.xhtml#noteref-323" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-324" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Pericles, in Plutarch on “False Shame.” <a href="chapter-1-33.xhtml#noteref-324" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-325" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Our poet” was, of course, Ariosto; but Cervantes has confounded two different stories in Canto 43. It was not the doctor but a cavalier, Rinaldo’s host, who tried the test of the cup. The magic cup, of which no husband of a faithless wife could drink without spilling, figures frequently in old romance. It appears in the ballad of “The Boy and the Mantle,” and also in another of the King Arthur ballads. <a href="chapter-1-33.xhtml#noteref-325" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-326" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This sonnet, like that in Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIII</span>, was repeated by Cervantes in the play of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.play" xml:lang="es">Casa de los Zelos</i>﻿—Jornada 2. <a href="chapter-1-34.xhtml#noteref-326" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-327" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 67. <a href="chapter-1-34.xhtml#noteref-327" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-328" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 190. <a href="chapter-1-34.xhtml#noteref-328" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-329" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The four S’s that should qualify a lover were <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">sabio</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">solo</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">solicito</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">secreto</i>. It is needless to say that Leonela’s alphabet cannot be literally translated. <a href="chapter-1-34.xhtml#noteref-329" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-330" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 228﻿—expressive probably of popular anxiety on the eve of a bullfight. <a href="chapter-1-35.xhtml#noteref-330" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-331" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Quartillo﻿—the fourth of a real. <a href="chapter-1-35.xhtml#noteref-331" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-332" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Lautrec and the Great Captain were not engaged in the same campaigns. The former commanded in Italy in the time of Francis <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> and Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>, several years after the death of the Great Captain. <a href="chapter-1-35.xhtml#noteref-332" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-333" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> on high saddles with short stirrups. <a href="chapter-1-36.xhtml#noteref-333" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-334" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Only a few lines back we are told Dorothea had fainted, and a little farther on how she came to herself. <a href="chapter-1-36.xhtml#noteref-334" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-335" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The first edition has <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">firma que hiciste</i>; but Don Fernando did not sign any paper, but gave Dorothea a ring. <a href="chapter-1-36.xhtml#noteref-335" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-336" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">No saber de la misa la media</i> a familiar mode of describing ignorance. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-336" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-337" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 120. The time at which the truth of any statement will be seen. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-337" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-338" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes forgets that he has not as yet said anything about his captivity. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-338" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-339" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Properly <i class="xml-lang" lang="ar" xml:lang="ar">ma-kan-shy</i>﻿—the common emphatic negative in popular Arabic, at least in the Barbary States. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-339" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-340" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Man of letters”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">letrado</i>, as will be seen, means here specially one devoted to jurisprudence. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-340" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-341" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Andar a la sopa</i>﻿—to attend at the convents where soup is given out to the poor. The convent soup, as Quevedo says in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Gran Tacaño</i>, was also a great resource of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">picaro</i> class. <a href="chapter-1-37.xhtml#noteref-341" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-342" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> fall short of 1,000. <a href="chapter-1-38.xhtml#noteref-342" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-343" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Clemencín explains this as “in one way or another.” Another explanation is that by skirts (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">faldas</i>) regular salary is meant, and by sleeves (<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">mangas</i>) douceurs, perquisites, and the like. <a href="chapter-1-38.xhtml#noteref-343" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-344" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">We have here, no doubt, a personal reminiscence of Lepanto. It was in an affair somewhat of this sort that Cervantes himself received his wounds. <a href="chapter-1-38.xhtml#noteref-344" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-345" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“Montañas de Burgos” and “Montañas de León” were the names given to the southern slopes of the western continuation of the Pyrenees, the cradle of most of the old Gothic families of Spain, that of Cervantes himself among the number. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-345" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-346" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 121. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-346" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-347" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 202. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-347" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-348" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alva went to Flanders in 1567, so that the present scene would be laid in 1589; but Cervantes paid no attention to chronology. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-348" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-349" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This was the captain of the company in Diego de Moncada’s regiment in which Cervantes first served. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-349" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-350" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Properly﻿—Aluch Ali. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-350" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-351" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">John Andrea Doria, nephew of the great Andrea Doria. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-351" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-352" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The distinguishing mark of the admiral’s galley. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-352" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-353" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The fort commanding the entrance, the “gullet,” to the lagoon of Tunis. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-353" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-354" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Or Serbelloni. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-354" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-355" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 230. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-355" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-356" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The memories of this Don Pedro de Aguilar were printed in 1755 by the Sociedad de Bibliofilos Españoles. <a href="chapter-1-39.xhtml#noteref-356" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-357" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Clemencín says the merits of this sonnet are slender, and that the next is no better. He particularly objects to the idea of <em>souls</em> dyeing the sea with their <em>blood</em>. But Clemencín has no bowels of compassion for the straits of a sonneteer. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-357" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-358" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Fratin, “the little friar,” the name by which Jacome Palearo went. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-358" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-359" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This should be Hassan Pacha: Hassan Aga died in 1543. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-359" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-360" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The story of the captive, it is needless to say, is not the story of Cervantes himself; but it is colored throughout by his own experiences, and he himself speaks in the person of the captive. In the above passage, for example, we have an expression of the indomitable spirit that supported him, not only in captivity, but in the struggles of his later life. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-360" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-361" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The barrack or building in which slaves were kept. Littré explains it by saying that a “bath”﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">bagne</i>, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">baño</i>﻿—was on one occasion used as a place of confinement for Christian slaves at Constantinople. Condé, on the other hand, says the word has nothing to do with <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">baño</i>﻿—bath, but is pure Arabic, and means a building coated with plaster or stucco. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-361" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-362" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This “tal de Saavedra” was of course Cervantes himself. The story of his captivity and adventures had been already written by Haedo, but did not appear in print till 1612. Rodrigo Mendez Silva was so much struck by it that he mentions Cervantes as the most remarkable of the descendants of Nuño Alfonso; but, strange to say, though he wrote in 1648, he does not seem to be aware that he is speaking of the author of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>. Perhaps the good Dryasdust had never heard of such a book. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-362" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-363" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">La Pata, a fort near Oran. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-363" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-364" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Babazoun, “the gate of the sheep,” the south gate of Algiers. <a href="chapter-1-40.xhtml#noteref-364" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-365" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Arnaut Mami was the captor of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Sol</i> galley on board of which Cervantes and his brother Rodrigo were returning to Spain. He was noted for his cruelty, and was said to have his house full of noseless and earless Christians. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-365" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-366" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">An Algerine coin equal to about thirty-six reals. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-366" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-367" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A wind from the north, so called from coming across the Alps. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-367" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-368" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes gives the popular name by which the spot is known. Properly it is “Kubba Rumia,” “the Christian’s tomb;” that being the name given to the curious circular structure about which there has been so much discussion among French archaeologists. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-368" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-369" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Sierra Tejeda, to the south of Alhama, is apparently that which Cervantes means. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-369" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-370" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">About eighteen miles to the east of Málaga, at a little distance from the coast. <a href="chapter-1-41.xhtml#noteref-370" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-371" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes apparently forgets that they had supped already. <a href="chapter-1-42.xhtml#noteref-371" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-372" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">If so, the judge’s views of the value of evidence were peculiar. How could the curate, for instance, have known that the Frenchmen robbed his friend, if he had never been able to learn whether he reached Spain or had been carried off to France? <a href="chapter-1-42.xhtml#noteref-372" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-373" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In this translation an attempt has been made to imitate the prevailing rhyme of the Spanish ballad, the double assonant in the second and fourth lines. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-373" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-374" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">
							<span>Surgit Palinurus, et﻿ ﻿…</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Sidora cuncta notat tacito labentia coelo.</span>
						</p>
						<cite>—﻿<i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Aeneid</i> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">iii</span></cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-374" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-375" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Clara estrella.</i>” <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-375" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-376" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 190. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-376" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-377" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">“<i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">Tria virginis ora Dianae.</i>” <cite>—﻿<i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Aeneid</i> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">iv</span> 511</cite> <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-377" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-378" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Daphne. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-378" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-379" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cecear</i>﻿—to call attention by making a hissing sound such as the Andalusians produce when they have to pronounce <i epub:type="z3998:phoneme">ce</i>. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-379" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-380" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Magicians that figure in The Knight of Phoebus. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-380" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-381" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">There is some inconsistency here. How could Don Quixote fall almost to the ground, if when standing on Rocinante he was tied up so tightly as we are told? Hartzenbusch, <i class="xml-lang" lang="la" xml:lang="la">more suo</i>, has an ingenious explanation, by which he avoids the simpler one, that Cervantes never gave a thought to the matter. The strappado was inflicted by tying the hands of the victim behind his back and then hanging him by the wrists from a crossbeam or bough of a tree. Examples of it may be seen among Callot’s sketches. There is something almost ghastly in its introduction here as an illustration which must as a matter of course be familiar to every reader. <a href="chapter-1-43.xhtml#noteref-381" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-382" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 204. “Laws go as kings like:” a very old proverb, said to owe its origin to the summary manner in which Alfonso <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span> at Toledo settled the question as to which of the rival rituals, the French or the Musarabic, was to be adopted. It was agreed to try them by the test of fire, and the latter came out victorious, on which the king, who favored the other, flung it back into the flames. <a href="chapter-1-45.xhtml#noteref-382" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-383" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span> <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Orlando Furioso</i>, canto <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxvii</span>. Agramante was the leader of the Mohammedan kings and princes assembled at the siege of Paris, of whom Sobrino was one. <a href="chapter-1-45.xhtml#noteref-383" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-384" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Escote</i>; old French <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">escot</i>. <a href="chapter-1-45.xhtml#noteref-384" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-385" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr> Augustus. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-385" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-386" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 77. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-386" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-387" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 222. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-387" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-388" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 9. Generally mistranslated “than is dreamt of,” as if it was <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">sueña</i> instead of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">suena</i>. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-388" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-389" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 196. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-389" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-390" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This resembles the scene in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Morgante Maggiore</i> (<span epub:type="z3998:roman">xii</span> 88), where Orlando is seized and bound by the pagans. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-390" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-391" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A name formed from <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">mentir</i>, to tell lies. <a href="chapter-1-46.xhtml#noteref-391" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-392" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Here, for once, Hartzenbusch has overlooked an inconsistency. In Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XLV</span> we were told the officers were <em>three</em> in number. Farther on it will be seen that they carried crossbows, not muskets. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-392" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-393" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Rinconete y Cortadillo</i> is the third of the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Novelas Ejemplares</i> published by Cervantes in 1613. From this we may assume that the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Curioso Impertinente</i> was written about the same time, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> during his residence in Seville. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-393" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-394" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="es">Suma de las Súmulas</i>, Alcalá 1557, by Gaspar Carillo de Villalpando, a theologian who distinguished himself for learning and eloquence at the Council of Trent. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-394" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-395" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 209. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-395" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-396" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A title sometimes given to ecclesiastics in lieu of “Reverence.” <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-396" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-397" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbial phrase﻿—“<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Adobadme esos candiles.</i>” <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-397" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-398" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbs 112 and 117. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-398" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-399" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 178. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-399" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-400" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 69. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-400" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-401" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alluding to Belianis of Greece, who when only sixteen cut a knight in two at Persepolis. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-401" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-402" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “the more of the doubtful,” meaning the more of that which is not manifestly impossible. <a href="chapter-1-47.xhtml#noteref-402" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-403" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original it is <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">burlado</i>, “scoffed at,” which makes no sense. Hartzenbusch suggests <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">vitoreado</i>, but I think <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">alabado</i> is the more likely word and suits the context better. <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-403" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-404" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alluding to the proverb (216) <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">El sastre del Campillo, que cosia de balde y ponia el hilo</i>﻿—“The tailor of El Campillo, who stitched for nothing and found the thread.” In the original it is “del <em>cantillo</em>” and the Marquis of Santillana gives the proverb in this form; but in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Picara Justina</i>, in Quevedo, and most other authorities it is given as above. “Cantillo” is unmeaning, while “Campillo,” or “El Campillo” is the name of nearly a score of places in Spain. Anyone versed in proverbial literature will see that this is one of the class of quasi-local proverbs to which so many of the Spanish belong, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">e.g.</abbr> “the squire of Guadalajara,” “the abbot of Zarzuela,” “the smith of Arganda,” “the doctors of Valencia,” and that peculiarly humorous one, which ought by right to be Scottish, “The piper of Bujalance, (who got) one maravedi to strike up and ten to leave off.” <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-404" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-405" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">By Lupercio Leonardo de Argensola. <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-405" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-406" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">La Ingratitud Vengada</i>, a comedy by Lope de Vega; <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">La Numancia</i>, a tragedy by Cervantes himself, first printed in 1784; <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">El Mercader Amante</i>, a comedy by Gaspar de Aguilar; and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">La Enemiga Favorable</i>, by the licentiate Francisco Tarraga. <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-406" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-407" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The foreigners Cervantes alludes to here could only have been the Italians, who had made some efforts in the direction of dramatic propriety. There was no French stage at the time; and the English certainly did not “scrupulously observe” the laws he alludes to. <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-407" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-408" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The fertile wit was, of course, Lope de Vega, at whom, in particular, this criticism is aimed; and Cervantes shows great adroitness in the mode in which he has conducted his attack. There is hardly anything, however, which he says that Lope does not admit with cynical candor in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arte Nuevo de Hacer Comedias</i>, where he insists upon the right of the public to have nonsense if it prefers it, inasmuch as it pays. This chapter has a peculiar interest, not only as showing the views of Cervantes, but as furnishing an explanation of the bitter feeling with which he was unquestionably regarded by Lope and Lope’s school; a feeling that found expression a few years later in the attack made upon him by Avellaneda. Cervantes himself shortly afterwards in his comedies violated nearly all the principles he lays down here, and in the second act of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Rufian Dichoso</i> solemnly reads his recantation. Much of what he says here is almost identical with what Sir Philip Sidney had said in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Apologie for Poetrie</i>. <a href="chapter-1-48.xhtml#noteref-408" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-409" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">E.g.</abbr> Bradamante, Marfisa, and Antea, in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Orlando</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Morgante Maggiore</i>. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-409" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-410" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Count Fernán González of Castile, the hero of many ballads, flourished in the tenth century; for Gonzalo Fernández, or Hernández, and Diego García de Paredes see notes to Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXII</span>: García Pérez de Vargas is the hero of more than one ballad, but from the mention of Jerez it may be that Cervantes meant Diego Pérez de Vargas, who, at the siege of Jerez, performed the feat that got him the name of the Pounder. (See Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span>.) Garcilaso is not the poet but an ancestor of his, known as “el del Ave Maria,” from having slain at the battle of the Salado a Moor who appeared with a label bearing the words “Ave Maria” tied to his horse’s tail; an exploit generally said to have been performed at Granada. Don Manuel Ponce de León was a knight of the time of Ferdinand and Isabella, who figures in the ballads of the Siege of Granada; for him see note to Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XVII</span> Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-410" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-411" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Princess Florides was the sister of Fierabras, and wife of Guy of Burgundy, a nephew of Charlemagne. The bridge of Mantible, referred to in the History of Charlemagne, was defended by the giant Galafre supported by the Turks, but carried by Charlemagne with the help of Fierabras. The Estremaduran peasants have given the name to the ruins of the old Roman bridge over the Tagus at Alconétar, north of Caceres. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-411" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-412" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A romance of the Charlemagne series, originally written in Italian, but translated into Spanish in 1527. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-412" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-413" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The history of Pierres and Magalona is a Provençal romance written in the twelfth century by Bernardo Treviez, and translated into Spanish apparently as early as 1519. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-413" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-414" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “dread horn of Roland,” Olifant, was, in fact, an elephant’s tusk. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-414" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-415" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Juan de Merlo was a Portuguese knight in the reign of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> of Castile, whose deeds are celebrated by Juan de Menain the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Laberinto</i> (198, 199). <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-415" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-416" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Fernando de Guevara was another knight of the time of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-416" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-417" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The “Paso Honroso” was one of the most famous feats of chivalry of the Middle Ages. Suero de Quiñones, a knight of León, with nine others, undertook in 1434 to hold the bridge of Orbigo, near Astorga, against all comers for thirty days. Each was to break three lances with every gentleman who presented himself. There were 727 encounters and 166 lances broken. An account of it was written by a contemporary, Pero Rodriguez de Lena, secretary of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, which was afterwards re-edited by Juan de Pineda, and printed at Salamanca in 1588 under the title of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Libro del Paso Honroso</i>. It is appended to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Crónica de Álvaro de Luna</i>, Madrid, 1784. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-417" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-418" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A knight of Navarre mentioned in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Crónica of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></i> and in Zurita’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Annals of Aragón</i>. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-418" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-419" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">See <a href="endnotes-1.xhtml#note-86">note on Turpin</a>, Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</span>. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-419" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-420" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">No such title as Knight of the Twelve Peers ever existed. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-420" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-421" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">With regard to the Cid the canon is quite right: there is no historical foundation for three-fourths of the achievements attributed to him by the ballads and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">crónicas</i>. As to Bernardo del Carpio, there may be, of course, some nucleus of fact round which the legends have clustered, but that is all that can be said for his existence. The saddle of the Cid is not now among the treasures of the Armería at Madrid, if indeed it ever was. <a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#noteref-421" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-422" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In la Cuesta’s third edition of 1608 a passage is inserted here for which there is neither authority nor necessity. <a href="chapter-1-50.xhtml#noteref-422" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-423" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The phrase used only by a player who wishes to withdraw from a game. <a href="chapter-1-50.xhtml#noteref-423" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-424" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The original editions have “Gante y Luna,” which are not names of persons known in connection with any feats of the kind described. Garcilaso (<a href="chapter-1-49.xhtml#chapter-1-49-p-12">see here</a>) is much more likely to be the name mentioned with Deigo García de Paredes. <a href="chapter-1-51.xhtml#noteref-424" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-425" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Hartzenbusch, who will never admit an error in taste or judgment in Cervantes, explains the conduct of the canon and curate on this occasion by pointing out that it was after dinner. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-425" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-426" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">It is commonly said that Sancho, though he would have understood what <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">isla</i> meant, had no conception of the meaning of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">insula</i>, the antiquated word for island Don Quixote always uses; but it appears from this that he understood perfectly what an <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">insula</i> is. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-426" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-427" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 138. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-427" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-428" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">One of his grievances against the books of chivalry being that they led astray not merely the silly, thoughtless, and uncritical, but vast numbers of people who ought to know better. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-428" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-429" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Whether or not this is to be held an indication of some grudge on the part of Cervantes against the authorities of the town, it is, at any rate, conclusive that Don Quixote’s village, “the name of which he did not care to call to mind,” was Argamasilla. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Monicongo</i> may be translated “mannikin”; <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Paniaguado</i> is a sort of parasite hanging about the house of a patron for such scraps as he can pick up; <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Burlador</i> means a joker, and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">cachidiablo</i> a hobgoblin. Except, perhaps, in the sonnet on Sancho Panza, there is not much drollery or humor in these verses, but it would not be fair to criticise them severely, as they are obviously nothing more than a mere outburst of reckless nonsense to finish off with; a sort of flourish or <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">rubrica</i> like that commonly appended to a Spanish signature. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-429" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-430" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the second and third editions <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">trono</i>﻿—“throne”﻿—was changed into <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">tronco</i>, which Hartzenbusch considers a blundering alteration. I am inclined to think, however, that he is wrong, and that what Cervantes meant was not a diamond-studded throne, but an adamant pillar, a trophy in fact. But it is no great matter; the sonnet was meant for nonsense, and is successful either way. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-430" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-431" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Brillador was Orlando’s horse; Bayard, Rinaldo’s:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“Ouel Brigliador si bello e si gagliardo</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Che non ha paragon, fuorche Baiardo.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furtoso</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IX</span> 60</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-431" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-432" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Misquoted from Ariosto, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furioso</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span> 16:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child">
							<span>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">Forse altri canterà con miglior plettro.</i>”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>Cervantes, it will be seen, leaves it very uncertain whether he means to give a continuation of the adventures of Don Quixote or not, and here almost seems to invite some other historian to undertake the task. <a href="chapter-1-52.xhtml#noteref-432" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-433" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The spurious “Second Part,” which came out in the autumn of 1614, was described on the title-page as the work of Alonso Fernández de Avellaneda, of Tordesillas, and was licensed and printed at Tarragona. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-433" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-434" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbial phrase. See <a href="endnotes-2.xhtml#note-638">this note</a>. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-434" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-435" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Avellaneda, in his coarse and scarrilous preface, charged Cervantes with attacking Lope de Vega, obviously alluding to the passages on the drama in Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XLVIII</span>, and attributed the attack to envy. Lope was not, however, a familiar of the Inquisition at the time Cervantes was writing the First Part of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>, as the words used here would imply. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-435" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-436" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Podenco</i>, a kind of small greyhound, hunting by nose as well as by sight, and generally used for rabbits. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-436" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-437" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The municipal authorities of Seville, Cordova, and Granada were called <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Veintiquatros</i>, from being twenty-four in number. The passage is, of course, a quotation from some popular interlude of the day. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-437" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-438" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Bernardo de Sandoval y Rojas was Cardinal-Archbishop of Toledo, Primate of Spain, and brother of the Duke of Lerma, the Prime Minister. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-438" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-439" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Las Coplas de Mingo Revulgo</i> is the title given to an old versified satire on the reign of Henry <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span> absurdly attributed by some to Juan de Mena, by others to Rodrigo Cota, or Fernando del Pulgar. <a href="preface-2.xhtml#noteref-439" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-440" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Ni Rey ni Roque</i>﻿—“neither king nor rook”﻿—a popular phrase somewhat like “gentle or simple,” or “high or low.” According to Clemencín probably derived from the game of chess, rook or rock (<abbr>Pers.</abbr> <i class="xml-lang" lang="fa" xml:lang="fa">rokh</i>) being the same thing as the castle. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-440" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-441" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The ballad referred to has not been identified so far as I am aware. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-441" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-442" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Cuerpo de tal</i>﻿—like the English﻿—a less irreverent form of “God’s body!” <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-442" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-443" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Andar estaciones</i> properly means to visit certain churches, for the purpose of offering up the prayers required to obtain indulgences. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-443" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-444" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 49. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-444" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-445" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The first nine are heroes of Spanish chivalry romance; the others are from Boiardo and Ariosto. There never was any such book as Turpin’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Cosmography</i>; it was Ariosto himself who traced the descent of the dukes of Ferrara from Ruggiero. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-445" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-446" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Morgante Maggiore</i> of Pulci. The account of the bones found in Sicily is in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Jardín de Flores Curiosos</i> of Antonio de Torquemada, “the Spanish Mandeville,” as his English translator calls him. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-446" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-447" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The friend was his master, Dardinel, beside whose body he received the wound of which he was cured by Angelica. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-447" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-448" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Cervantes misquotes Ariosto’s lines, which are:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“E dell’ India a Medor desse lo scettro,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Forse altri canterà con miglior plettro.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>—﻿<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furioso</i> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span> 16</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-448" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-449" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Andalusian was Barahona de Soto, who wrote the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Primera Parte de la Angelica</i> (not <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Lagrimas de Angelica</i>, as Cervantes calls it in <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span></a>). It appeared at Granada in 1586. The Castilian was Lope de Vega, whose <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Hermosura de Angelica</i> formed the first part of his <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Rimas</i>, printed at Madrid in 1602. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#noteref-449" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-450" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">insulas ni insulos</i>. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Insula</i>, the word always used in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Amadís</i>, and by Don Quixote, instead of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">isla</i>, is a puzzle to the niece and housekeeper. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-450" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-451" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.e.</abbr>, the gentry by birth and the gentry by position. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-451" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-452" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the time of Cervantes the title of <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Don</i> was much more restricted than nowadays, when it is by courtesy given to everyone. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-452" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-453" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “with a rag behind and another in front.” <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-453" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-454" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Alluding to the proverb (111) <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Hidalgo honrado antes roto que remendado</i>﻿—“The gentleman of honour, ragged sooner than patched.” <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-454" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-455" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 52, meaning “don’t fancy you have done with it.” <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-455" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-456" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbial phrase 229. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-456" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-457" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Berengena</i>﻿—the aubergine or eggplant. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-457" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-458" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The critics and commentators have been much troubled by the inconsistency involved in making only a month elapse between the termination of the First Part and the resumption of the story, in which short space of time the first volume is supposed to have been written, translated, printed, and circulated, as we are afterwards told, to the extent of 12,000 copies. Cervantes, however, himself saw the blunder, as we perceive here, and makes a happy use of it as evidence of enchantment in the knight’s eyes. Cervantes never troubled his head about such inconsistencies. The action of the whole story of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i> is supposed to extend over three or four months only, but according to dates it extends over twenty-five years, from 1589 to 1614. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-458" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-459" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">No edition appeared at Barcelona in the lifetime of Cervantes, and no edition of the First Part by itself was ever printed at Antwerp. On the other hand, there were two editions at Brussels and one at Milan, of which Cervantes does not seem to have been aware when he wrote this. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-459" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-460" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">
						<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Si se anda á decir verdades.</i>
						<a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-460" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-461" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 220﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Aun hay sol en las barbas</i>, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> “the day is not yet over. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Las bardas</i> are properly not the wall itself, but a kind of coping of straw or faggots laid along the top of it. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-461" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-462" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Grama-tica</i>﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">grama</i> being an instrument for dressing flax, and therefore quite within Sancho’s comprehension. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-462" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-463" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Revolver berzas con capachos</i> is, according to Covarrubias, a familiar phrase to express jumbling together things of different sorts. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-463" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-464" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In the original, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">trillada</i>, “thrashed,” as wheat is in Spain, by having the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">trilla</i>, a sort of harrow, dragged over it. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-464" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-465" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 166. In full it runs, “with straw or with hay the mattress is filled.” <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-465" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-466" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">El Tostado was Alonso de Madrigal, Bishop of Avila, a prolific author of devotional works in the reign of John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-466" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-467" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 128. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-467" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-468" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">This passage has somewhat puzzled those who were unaware of the difference in text between the first and the subsequent editions. Cervantes is here speaking of the first edition, in which (as has been already pointed out, Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIII</span>) no account of the theft of the ass is given. From this we gather that Cervantes himself had nothing to do with the attempt made in the second edition to rectify the blunder, for had it been his own work he certainly would not have ignored it as he does here. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-468" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-469" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">He is here ridiculing what he considers the hypercriticism of those readers who make a fuss about such trifling slips. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-469" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-470" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">A slang phrase for being weak for want of food. <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-470" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-471" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Equivalent to our phrase, “stay and take potluck.” <a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#noteref-471" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-472" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“La sella su qnattro aste gli suffolse,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>E di sotto il destrier nudo gli tolse.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Furioso</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXVII</span> 84</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>But the idea was Boiardo’s:</p>
					<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p class="first-child xml-lang" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
							<span>“E la cingia disciolse presto presto,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>E pose il legno sotto de lo arcione.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Orlando Innamorato</i>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> <abbr>v.</abbr> 40</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>It seems plain from this that Cervantes meant to introduce into the First Part a burlesque of the theft of Sacripante’s horse, with Ginés de Pasamonte playing the part of Brunello. It would have been an incident exactly in the spirit of the book. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-472" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-473" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 80. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-473" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-474" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Ripio</i>, small stones and mortar used in building to fill the interstices between the large stones. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-474" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-475" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">In commemoration of the battle of Alcoraz, where in 1096 Pedro <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> of Aragón, with the help of <abbr>St.</abbr> George, defeated the Moors. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-475" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-476" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The old Spanish war-cry, <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Santiago y cierra España!</i> <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-476" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-477" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Demasia</i>﻿—literally “excess.” Hartzenbusch would add “of the risk,” or substitute “occasion,” but I venture to think the word by itself may be taken in the sense I have given. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-477" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-478" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbs 236 and 22. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-478" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-479" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 158. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-479" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-480" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Literally, “among the mallows.” <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-480" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-481" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">There is some difference of opinion as to who were the three poets and a half allowed to be famous by Samson Carrasco; but probably Cervantes only intended a malicious little joke at the expense of the whole swarm of poets of his day, and their mutual admiration cliques. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-481" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-482" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">decima</i> is properly a stanza of ten eight-syllable lines; in the <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">redondilla</i>, which is more commonly a four-line stanza, the last line rhymes with the first. The acrostic was one of the poetical frivolities of the day. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#noteref-482" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-483" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 101. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-483" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-484" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 109. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-484" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-485" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 113. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-485" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-486" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Teresa inverts the proverb after Sancho’s fashion; see <a href="endnotes-2.xhtml#note-796">this note</a>. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-486" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-487" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverbs 148 and 91. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-487" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-488" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The Infanta Urraca was the daughter of Ferdinand <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> of Castile and León, who, finding herself omitted in her father’s will, threatened to disgrace him by taking to a disreputable life. He in consequence altered his will and left her the city of Zamora, adding his curse upon him who should attempt to take it from her; a curse which shortly afterwards took effect when her brother Sancho, besieging the city, was treacherously slain by Vellido Dolfos. The story is the subject of two ballads﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.music" xml:lang="es">Morir vos Queredes, Padre</i>, and <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" epub:type="se:name.music" xml:lang="es">Acababa el Rey Fernando</i>. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-488" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-489" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Almohada</i> is a cushion, which Sancho supposes to have had something to do with the origin of the sect of the Almohades. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-489" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-490" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 62. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-490" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-491" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">There can be very little doubt, as Pellicer points out, that Molière took the scene between Monsieur Jourdain and his wife in act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span> of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Bourgeois Gentilhomme</i> from this dialogue between Sancho and Teresa. <a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#noteref-491" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-492" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">One of the most important of the preliminaries in a formal combat was placing the men, so that neither should be at a disadvantage by having the sun in his eyes. So in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Poem of the Cid</i>, the marshals portion out the sun to the Cid’s champions and the Infantes of Carrion. <a href="chapter-2-6.xhtml#noteref-492" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-493" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The garment worn by penitents, who have been tried by the Inquisition and have confessed. <a href="chapter-2-6.xhtml#noteref-493" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-494" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">The reader should bear in mind that <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">caballero</i>﻿—“knight”﻿—means also “gentleman.” It is in the latter sense that Cervantes uses the word in the following passage, as the context will show. <a href="chapter-2-6.xhtml#noteref-494" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-495" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Hidalgos</i>. <a href="chapter-2-6.xhtml#noteref-495" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-496" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Garcilaso de la Vega, elegy on the death of Don Bernardino de Toledo, brother of the Duke of Alva. <a href="chapter-2-6.xhtml#noteref-496" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-497" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child"><i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Venturas</i>, which the honsekeeper mistakes for <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">aventuras</i>, would mean strokes of good fortune. <a href="chapter-2-7.xhtml#noteref-497" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-498" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">According to an old popular rhyme, Santa Apollonia complained of a toothache to the Blessed Virgin, who thereupon forbad any tooth, double or single, ever to trouble her again. The spell is alluded to in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Celestina</i> act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span>. <a href="chapter-2-7.xhtml#noteref-498" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-499" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 40﻿—if you have a thing in writing, words are unnecessary. <a href="chapter-2-7.xhtml#noteref-499" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-500" role="doc-endnote" epub:type="endnote footnote">
					<p class="first-child">Proverb 74﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Quien destaja no baraja</i>; always mistranslated “He who cuts does not shuffle,” which would be meaningless here. It has nothing to do with cards. <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Destajar</i> means to lay down conditions, to stipulate; <i class="xml-lang" lang="es" xml:lang="es">Barajar</i> certainly means to shuffle, to jumble things together, but in old Spanish it meant also to wrangle or dispute. <a href="chapter-2-7.xhtml#noteref-500" role="doc-backlink" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
